content/player/blockchain-integration/transactions-in-polygon.md, before:

---
date: 2020-02-17
title: Transactions in Polygon
description: Frequently Asked Questions
categories:
  - blockchain-integration
type: Document
aliases:
  - /blockchain-integration/transactions-in-polygon/
url: /player/blockchain-integration/transactions-in-polygon
weight: 3
---

## What is Polygon?

As stated in the the official Polygon website, [Polygon](https://polygon.technology/) is a protocol and a framework for building and connecting Ethereum-compatible blockchain networks. Aggregating scalable solutions on Ethereum supporting a multi-chain Ethereum ecosystem.”

## What is Matic?

MATIC is Polygon’s native token. It is a cryptocurrency used to cover gas fees in the Polygon network, among other use cases. MATIC is to Polygon as ETH is to Ethereum.
You can buy MATIC in most cryptocurrency exchanges.

## Polygon in Decentraland’s Marketplace and Builder

By using the Polygon network, and thanks to Decentraland’s DAO, users can list, sell and buy wearables in the Marketplace or publish their collections in the Builder without paying for the transaction gas using the meta-transactions services.

**Transactions in Polygon are not free**. The Decentraland DAO covers the cost of the transactions in Polygon so that users can enjoy many costless transactions in the Marketplace.

In order to enjoy costless transactions there are three conditions that need to be met:

- You need to be connected to Ethereum Mainnet.
- The item you are intending to buy needs to have a price of 1 MANA or higher.
- You didn’t reach your free transaction limit.

The Decentraland DAO reserves itself the rights to consume or pause the meta-transactions services when the network’s gas fees are high to prevent the consumption of the gas tanks so they can last longer and be used by as many people as possible.

## Why do I have to cover the transaction fees for items that cost less than 1 MANA?

In order to avoid exploitation and protect the free gas service, items that cost less than 1 MANA are not included in the costless transactions. You can buy these items by connecting to the Polygon network with MATIC in your wallet.

Gas fees are variable.

## What can I do if network fees are higher than 300 gwei?

Network fees are variable, so the best you can do is wait and try again at another moment.

Alternatively, you can buy these items by connecting to the Polygon network to use the MATIC in your wallet to pay for the fees. The MATIC fee will be deducted automatically as part of the transaction fee of the Polygon network. You only need to be connected to the Polygon network and have MATIC in your wallet.

Gas fees are variable.

## What happens if the free transaction limit is reached?

The free transaction limit renews every day, so you can try the day after. Alternatively, you can cover the cost of your transaction with MATIC while being connected to the Polygon network.

The MATIC fee will be deducted automatically as part of the transaction fee of the Polygon network. You only need to be connected to the Polygon network and have MATIC in your wallet.

Gas fees are variable.

## Where can I get MATIC to pay for transaction fees?

One way to obtain MATIC is buying it through [the Account dapp](https://account.decentraland.org/).

Simply click on the BUY button in the Polygon MANA section, and exchange the crypto you want to purchase from MANA to MATIC.

Another way is through Decentralized or Centralized exchanges. You can check [https://polygon.technology/matic-token/](https://polygon.technology/matic-token/) to see which exchanges operate with MATIC. If you want to use a Centralized exchange, make sure that it allows withdrawals through the Polygon network.

If you have MATIC in the Ethereum network, you can always use the [Polygon Bridge](https://wallet.polygon.technology/bridge/) to deposit that MATIC to the Polygon network.

> **Warning:**
> After completing a transaction in Polygon, remember to switch back to Ethereum Mainnet to enjoy all the features in the Marketplace and the Builder that are not supported in the Polygon network.

Commit message:

Update transactions-in-polygon.md (#500)
Clarified what Gwei means and added a link to the Polygon gas traker

Signed-off-by: nicorajcodcl <112079242+nicorajcodcl@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Nicolas Earnshaw <nearnshaw@decentraland.org>

content/player/blockchain-integration/transactions-in-polygon.md, after:

---
date: 2020-02-17
title: Transactions in Polygon
description: Frequently Asked Questions
categories:
  - blockchain-integration
type: Document
aliases:
  - /blockchain-integration/transactions-in-polygon/
url: /player/blockchain-integration/transactions-in-polygon
weight: 3
---

## What is Polygon?

As stated in the the official Polygon website, [Polygon](https://polygon.technology/) is a protocol and a framework for building and connecting Ethereum-compatible blockchain networks. Aggregating scalable solutions on Ethereum supporting a multi-chain Ethereum ecosystem.”

## What is Matic?

MATIC is Polygon’s native token. It is a cryptocurrency used to cover gas fees in the Polygon network, among other use cases. MATIC is to Polygon as ETH is to Ethereum.
You can buy MATIC in most cryptocurrency exchanges.

## Polygon in Decentraland’s Marketplace and Builder

By using the Polygon network, and thanks to Decentraland’s DAO, users can list, sell and buy wearables in the Marketplace or publish their collections in the Builder without paying for the transaction gas using the meta-transactions services.

**Transactions in Polygon are not free**. The Decentraland DAO covers the cost of the transactions in Polygon so that users can enjoy many costless transactions in the Marketplace.

In order to enjoy costless transactions there are three conditions that need to be met:

- You need to be connected to Ethereum Mainnet.
- The item you are intending to buy needs to have a price of 1 MANA or higher.
- You didn’t reach your free transaction limit.

The Decentraland DAO reserves itself the rights to consume or pause the meta-transactions services when the network’s gas fees are high to prevent the consumption of the gas tanks so they can last longer and be used by as many people as possible.

## Why do I have to cover the transaction fees for items that cost less than 1 MANA?

In order to avoid exploitation and protect the free gas service, items that cost less than 1 MANA are not included in the costless transactions. You can buy these items by connecting to the Polygon network with MATIC in your wallet.

Gas fees are variable.

## What can I do if network fees are higher than 300 gwei?

Gwei is a unit of measurement used in the Ethereum blockchain. It is short for "Giga-wei," where "giga" denotes one billion. In Polygon, gwei is the smallest denomination of MATIC that is equivalent to 1/1,000,000,000 of 1 MATIC (1 MATIC = 1,000,000,000 gwei). All transaction fees on the Polygon network are denominated in gwei.

Network fees (exoressed ub gwei) are variable, so the best you can do is wait and try again at another moment. [Here](https://polygonscan.com/gastracker) you can check the Polygon Gas Fee in real time. 

Alternatively, you can buy these items by connecting to the Polygon network to use the MATIC in your wallet to pay for the fees. The MATIC fee will be deducted automatically as part of the transaction fee of the Polygon network. You only need to be connected to the Polygon network and have MATIC in your wallet.

Gas fees are variable.

## What happens if the free transaction limit is reached?

The free transaction limit renews every day, so you can try the day after. Alternatively, you can cover the cost of your transaction with MATIC while being connected to the Polygon network.

The MATIC fee will be deducted automatically as part of the transaction fee of the Polygon network. You only need to be connected to the Polygon network and have MATIC in your wallet.

Gas fees are variable.

## Where can I get MATIC to pay for transaction fees?

One way to obtain MATIC is buying it through [the Account dapp](https://account.decentraland.org/).

Simply click on the BUY button in the Polygon MANA section, and exchange the crypto you want to purchase from MANA to MATIC.

Another way is through Decentralized or Centralized exchanges. You can check [https://polygon.technology/matic-token/](https://polygon.technology/matic-token/) to see which exchanges operate with MATIC. If you want to use a Centralized exchange, make sure that it allows withdrawals through the Polygon network.

If you have MATIC in the Ethereum network, you can always use the [Polygon Bridge](https://wallet.polygon.technology/bridge/) to deposit that MATIC to the Polygon network.

> **Warning:**
> After completing a transaction in Polygon, remember to switch back to Ethereum Mainnet to enjoy all the features in the Marketplace and the Builder that are not supported in the Polygon network.
