content/creator/sdk7/media/audio-streaming.md, before:

---
date: 2022-07-11
title: Audio streaming
description: Play live audio streams in your scene.
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/audio-streaming/
weight: 1
---

You can stream audio from a URL. This is useful to play music directly from an internet radio, or stream a conference into your scene.

The audio in the source must be in one of the following formats: `.mp3`, `ogg`, or `aac`. The source must also be an _https_ URL (_http_ URLs aren't supported), and the source should have [CORS policies (Cross Origin Resource Sharing)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) that permit externally accessing it. If this is not the case, you might need to set up a server to act as a proxy and expose the stream in a valid way.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: To instead play a pre-recorded sound in your scene, see [Sounds]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/3d-essentials/sounds.md" >}}).
{{< /hint >}}

To add an audio stream into your scene, simply add an `AudioStream` component to an entity:

```ts
const streamEntity = engine.addEntity()

AudioStream.create(streamEntity, {
  url: 'https://icecast.ravepartyradio.org/ravepartyradio-192.mp3',
  playing: true,
  volume: 0.8,
})
```

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: The streamed sound isn't positional, it will be heard at a consistent volume throughout your entire scene. If a player steps out of the scene, they will not hear the streaming at all.
{{< /hint >}}

Set the volume of the `AudioStream` component by changing its `volume` property.

Switch the `AudioStream` component on or off by setting its `playing` property to _true_ or _false_.

To stream audio into a scene, you must add the `ALLOW_MEDIA_HOSTNAMES` permission to the `requiredPermissions` list in the `scene.json` file. You must also include the list of high-level domains where you'll be streaming from under `allowedMediaHostnames`.

```json
"requiredPermissions": [
    "ALLOW_MEDIA_HOSTNAMES"
  ],
   "allowedMediaHostnames": [
    "somehost.com",
    "otherhost.xyz"
  ]
```

See [Required permissions]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/scene-metadata.md#required-permissions">}}) for more details.

Commit message:

new smart items (#299)
* new smart items

* missing imports to instance library

Signed-off-by: Nicolas Earnshaw <nearnshaw@decentraland.org>

---------

Signed-off-by: Nicolas Earnshaw <nearnshaw@decentraland.org>

content/creator/sdk7/media/audio-streaming.md, after:

---
date: 2022-07-11
title: Audio streaming
description: Play live audio streams in your scene.
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/audio-streaming/
weight: 1
---

You can stream audio from a URL. This is useful to play music directly from an internet radio, or stream a conference into your scene.

The audio in the source must be in one of the following formats: `.mp3`, `ogg`, or `aac`. The source must also be an _https_ URL (_http_ URLs aren't supported), and the source should have [CORS policies (Cross Origin Resource Sharing)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cross-origin_resource_sharing) that permit externally accessing it. If this is not the case, you might need to set up a server to act as a proxy and expose the stream in a valid way.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: To instead play a pre-recorded sound in your scene, see [Sounds]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/3d-essentials/sounds.md" >}}).
{{< /hint >}}

To add an audio stream into your scene, simply add an `AudioStream` component to an entity:

```ts
const streamEntity = engine.addEntity()

AudioStream.create(streamEntity, {
  url: 'https://icecast.ravepartyradio.org/ravepartyradio-192.mp3',
  playing: true,
  volume: 0.8,
})
```

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: The streamed sound isn't positional, it will be heard at a consistent volume throughout your entire scene. If a player steps out of the scene, they will not hear the streaming at all.
{{< /hint >}}

Set the volume of the `AudioStream` component by changing its `volume` property.

Switch the `AudioStream` component on or off by setting its `playing` property to _true_ or _false_.

{{< hint info >}}
**📔 Note**:
Not all streaming services allow you to play their audio outside their site. The following are some examples that work in Decentraland:

```ts
RAVE = ‘https://icecast.ravepartyradio.org/ravepartyradio-192.mp3’
DELTA = ‘https://cdn.instream.audio/:9069/stream?_=171cd6c2b6e’
GRAFFITI = ‘https://n07.radiojar.com/2qm1fc5kb.m4a?1617129761=&rj-tok=AAABeIR7VqwAilDFeUM39SDjmw&rj-ttl=5’
SIGNS = ‘https://edge.singsingmusic.net/MC2.mp3’
JAZZ = ‘https://live.vegascity.fm/radio/8010/the_flamingos.mp3’
```

{{< /hint >}}

<!--
To stream audio into a scene, you must add the `ALLOW_MEDIA_HOSTNAMES` permission to the `requiredPermissions` list in the `scene.json` file. You must also include the list of high-level domains where you'll be streaming from under `allowedMediaHostnames`.

```json
"requiredPermissions": [
    "ALLOW_MEDIA_HOSTNAMES"
  ],
   "allowedMediaHostnames": [
    "somehost.com",
    "otherhost.xyz"
  ]
```

See [Required permissions]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/scene-metadata.md#required-permissions">}}) for more details. -->
