content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/wearables/wearables-overview.md, before:

---
date: 2021-05-31
title: Wearables Overview
aliases:
  - /wearables/wearables-overview/
  - /decentraland/wearables-overview/
description: An overview of wearables NFTs for Decentraland
categories:
  - Decentraland
type: Document
url: /creator/wearables/wearables-overview
weight: 1
---

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/wearables-overview/00_wearables_overview.png" alt="WearablesOverview" width="900"/>

# What Are Wearables?

Wearables are the various items of clothing, accessories, and body features that can be used to customize the appearance of a Decentraland avatar. There is a selection of default wearables that are freely available to all avatars, but Decentraland also supports the creation and use of custom wearables that are represented by non-fungible tokens (or NFTs). This allows a finite amount of different wearables to be created, or minted, on the blockchain, similar to the LAND.

There’s a growing range of available wearables including cyberpunk themed sneakers, fashionable jackets, fun top hats, and more! All of these stylistic choices give users an exciting and meaningful way to invest in, and express, their own unique personalities. By allowing wearables to be minted, and then sold, as NFTs, Decentraland provides content creators with a fun way to monetize their creative work.

By default, Decentraland Wearables are minted on the Polygon/Matic side-chain so users can mint, buy, sell, or transfer items without having to pay gas fees.

# Wearable Categories

Each wearable has a specific category that determines which body part in the avatar system (e.g. head, upper body, etc.) the wearable will be applied to. Certain wearables will impact whether or not other wearables are rendered, depending on the specific category. Some wearables will entirely replace others with sometimes unexpected and surprising results. See the list below for details.

The different categories are:

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/creating-wearables/47_base_categories.png" width="900" />

- **Skin:** Replaces the entire avatar (head, upper body, lower body and feet except accessories)
- **Head:**
  - **Mouth**
  - **Eyes**
  - **Eyebrows**
  - **Facial Hair**
  - **Hair**
- **Upper Body**
- **Lower Body**
- **Handwear**
- **Feet**

There are also accessories that can be applied to different areas of an avatar. Some of these accessories can impact other wearables. The accessories are:

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/creating-wearables/48_accessories_categories.png" width="900" />

- **Mask**
- **Eyewear**
- **Earring**
- **Tiara**
- **Top Head**
- **Hat**
- **Helmet**

For a detailed description of each category, and how items within each category interact or replace one another, see **[Creating Wearables]({{< ref "/content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/wearables/creating-wearables.md" >}})**.

You can check some of the basic wearables here:

<iframe id="emote-preview" style="width:100%;border:0;height:60vh;"></iframe>

<script>
  const profile = Math.ceil(Math.random() * 120)
document.getElementById("emote-preview").src = "https://wearable-preview.decentraland.org/?profile=default"+profile+"&transparentBackground&loop=true"

  function changeProfile() {
document.getElementById("emote-preview").contentWindow.postMessage({
  type: 'update',
  payload: { options: {
    profile: `default${Math.ceil(Math.random() * 120)}`
  } }
},'*')
return false
  }
</script>

<a onclick="changeProfile()" style="cursor: pointer">Refresh wearables ↺</a>

The following shared folder contains example wearables, base models, textures and other resources you can use:

- **[Wearables Reference Models](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/12hOVgZsLriBuutoqGkIYEByJF8bA-rAU)**

Commit message:

3d emotes (#252)
* fixes on hand text

* add props and sounds

* Merge remote-tracking branch 'origin/main' into 3d-emotes

* Update props-and-sounds.md

* Update props-and-sounds.md

* add animation tips

* Update props-and-sounds.md

* Update props-and-sounds.md

* Update props-and-sounds.md

* Updated docs

* add info to docs

* added new rig blend file and other tweaks

* Update creating-emotes.md

* Update content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/emotes/creating-emotes.md

Co-authored-by: Melisa Anabella Rossi <melisa.rossi@decentraland.org>
Signed-off-by: Martin Shibuya <mshibuu@gmail.com>

* Update props-and-sounds.md

---------

Signed-off-by: Martin Shibuya <mshibuu@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Melisa Anabella Rossi <melisa.rossi@decentraland.org>

content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/wearables/wearables-overview.md, after:

---
date: 2021-05-31
title: Wearables Overview
aliases:
  - /wearables/wearables-overview/
  - /decentraland/wearables-overview/
description: An overview of wearables NFTs for Decentraland
categories:
  - Decentraland
type: Document
url: /creator/wearables/wearables-overview
weight: 1
---

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/wearables-overview/00_wearables_overview.png" alt="WearablesOverview" width="900"/>

# What Are Wearables?

Wearables are the various items of clothing, accessories, and body features that can be used to customize the appearance of a Decentraland avatar. There is a selection of default wearables that are freely available to all avatars, but Decentraland also supports the creation and use of custom wearables that are represented by non-fungible tokens (or NFTs). This allows a finite amount of different wearables to be created, or minted, on the blockchain, similar to the LAND.

There’s a growing range of available wearables including cyberpunk themed sneakers, fashionable jackets, fun top hats, and more! All of these stylistic choices give users an exciting and meaningful way to invest in, and express, their own unique personalities. By allowing wearables to be minted, and then sold, as NFTs, Decentraland provides content creators with a fun way to monetize their creative work.

By default, Decentraland Wearables are minted on the Polygon/Matic side-chain so users can mint, buy, sell, or transfer items without having to pay gas fees.

# What Are Smart Wearables?

Smart wearables are portable experiences that are turned on when the player puts on a certain item of clothing. Smart wearables can grant players new abilities, like a jetpack that lets them fly, or add a new layer of content on top of the rest of the world, like randomly placing coins to be collected throughout the whole of genesis city.

To know how to create **Smart Wearables** you can follow these [guidelines.](https://docs.decentraland.org/creator/development-guide/sdk7/smart-wearables/)

{{< hint warning >}}
Smart wearables, as a subset of wearables, possess the capability to integrate advanced interactions and functionalities. Consequently, proficient skills in coding are necessary to unlock their full potential and enhance their features.
{{< /hint >}}

# Wearable Categories

Each wearable has a specific category that determines which body part in the avatar system (e.g. head, upper body, etc.) the wearable will be applied to. Certain wearables will impact whether or not other wearables are rendered, depending on the specific category. Some wearables will entirely replace others with sometimes unexpected and surprising results. See the list below for details.

The different categories are:

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/creating-wearables/47_base_categories.png" width="900" />

- **Skin:** Replaces the entire avatar (head, upper body, lower body and feet except accessories)
- **Head:**
  - **Mouth**
  - **Eyes**
  - **Eyebrows**
  - **Facial Hair**
  - **Hair**
- **Upper Body**
- **Lower Body**
- **Handwear**
- **Feet**

There are also accessories that can be applied to different areas of an avatar. Some of these accessories can impact other wearables. The accessories are:

<img src="/images/wearables-and-emotes/creating-wearables/48_accessories_categories.png" width="900" />

- **Mask**
- **Eyewear**
- **Earring**
- **Tiara**
- **Top Head**
- **Hat**
- **Helmet**

For a detailed description of each category, and how items within each category interact or replace one another, see **[Creating Wearables]({{< ref "/content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/wearables/creating-wearables.md" >}})**.

You can check some of the basic wearables here:

<iframe id="emote-preview" style="width:100%;border:0;height:60vh;"></iframe>

<script>
  const profile = Math.ceil(Math.random() * 120)
document.getElementById("emote-preview").src = "https://wearable-preview.decentraland.org/?profile=default"+profile+"&transparentBackground&loop=true"

  function changeProfile() {
document.getElementById("emote-preview").contentWindow.postMessage({
  type: 'update',
  payload: { options: {
    profile: `default${Math.ceil(Math.random() * 120)}`
  } }
},'*')
return false
  }
</script>

<a onclick="changeProfile()" style="cursor: pointer">Refresh wearables ↺</a>

The following shared folder contains example wearables, base models, textures and other resources you can use:

- **[Wearables Reference Models](https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/12hOVgZsLriBuutoqGkIYEByJF8bA-rAU)**
