content/creator/_index.md, before:

---
title: Let’s build the metaverse together
date: 2022-02-08
description: Creators intro
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator
aliases:
  - /content-intro/
  - /development-guide/content-intro/
weight: 2
---

All creators are welcome! In Decentraland you have a wide range of Creative possibilities:

- [Scenes](#scenes)
- [Wearables & Smart Wearables](#wearables)
- [Emotes](#emotes)

# Scenes

3D content in Decentraland is made up of scenes, each scene occupies a finite amount of space and is displayed one next to the other for players to freely walk through them.

### Tools

Use these tools to create Decentraland scenes:

- **Web Editor:** A lightweight tool, with no installation. Use an easy drag and drop interface to create scenes.

  [Learn more]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/web-editor/web-editor.md" >}}).

  <img src="/images/intro/web-editor.png" width="600" />

- **Desktop Editor:** An all-in-one content creation tool. For users of any knowledge level, combining a graphical interface with code editing capabilities.

  [Learn more]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/installation-guide.md#the-decentraland-editor" >}}).

  <img src="/images/intro/desktop-editor.png" width="600" />

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: There are also community-built tools for creating Decentraland scenes:

- [**DCL Edit**](https://dcl-edit.com/): Drag and drop 3d models into your scene. You can then work on adding interactivity to the resulting scene using the SDK.
- [**Unity Exporter Toolkit**](https://github.com/PolygonalMind/dcl-dev-exportersdk7-release): Build in Unity, with a number of pre-built interactive modules. Export a fully-working Decentraland scene.

{{< /hint >}}

### 3D Art

Decentraland scenes are made up of 3D models.

- Chose from the wide catalog of default assets in both the Web Editor and the Desktop Editor. These are ready to go and optimized for using in Decentraland

  <img src="/images/intro/items.png" width="600" />

- Craft your own 3D models using Blender or your preferred 3D tools. Then import them into either the the Web Editor or the Desktop Editor.

  <img src="/images/intro/blender.png" width="600" />

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Content in Decentraland should stay within certain [size limitations]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/optimizing/scene-limitations.md" >}}) to ensure your scene runs smoothly.

See [3D modeling]({{< ref "/content/creator/3d-modeling/3d-models.md" >}}) for tips and tricks for optimizing, and information about supported features and formats for 3D models.
{{< /hint >}}

### Interactivity

To make your scene interactive:

- Use the UI of either the the Web Editor or the Desktop Editor to drop [Smart Items]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/web-editor/smart-items.md" >}}) into your scene. These are models that come pre-built with their own behavior, and are highly customizable. You can also assign the same behaviors to your own custom models (no code required).

  <img src="/images/intro/smart-items.png" width="600" />

- For developers that want to incorporate custom logic, use the SDK in the Desktop Editor to write code and do anything you can imagine. Learn to use the SDK:

  - [Quick start]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/sdk-101.md" >}}): follow this mini tutorial for a quick crash course.
  - [Development workflow]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/dev-workflow.md" >}}): read this to understand scene creation from end to end.
  - [Examples](https://studios.decentraland.org/resources?sdk_version=SDK7): dive right into working example scenes.

    <img src="/images/intro/sdk-code.png" width="600" />

### Publishing your scene

You don't need to own any tokens to start building your scene, with either the Web Editor or the Desktop Editor. To publish your scene, you can chose from the following options:

- **LAND in Genesis City**: This is the main open world in Decentraland, which is split up in 16x16 meter parcels. Buy one or several adjacent parcels in the [Marketplace](https://decentraland.org/marketplace/lands), and deploy your scene there.
- **Decentraland Worlds**: [Worlds]({{< ref "/content/creator/worlds/about.md" >}}) are your own spaces in the metaverse. All you need is to own a [Decentraland name](https://decentraland.org/marketplace/names/claim), and you can publish a scene as big as you want!

See [Kinds of project]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/kinds-of-project.md" >}}) to better understand the different options.

See [publishing]({{< ref "/content/creator/scenes/publishing/publishing.md" >}}) for details and special options when publishing a scene, to either Genesis City or Worlds.

# Wearables

Wearables are items of clothing that player avatars can wear. These are sold as NFTs and purchased in the [Marketplace](https://decentraland.org/marketplace/browse?section=wearables&vendor=decentraland&page=1&sortBy=newest&status=on_sale).

Learn everything about [Creating wearables]({{< ref "/content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/wearables/creating-wearables.md" >}}).

You can also combine a wearable with code from the SDK to create a [smart wearable]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/smart-wearables.md" >}}). This turns on a global scene whenever the player puts on the wearable, and can be used in all sorts of creative ways. See [Kinds of project]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/kinds-of-project.md" >}}) to better understand the different options.

# Emotes

Emotes are animations that a player's avatar can do. These are sold as NFTs and purchased in the [Marketplace](https://decentraland.org/marketplace/browse?assetType=item&section=emotes&vendor=decentraland&page=1&sortBy=newest&status=on_sale).

Learn everything about [Creating emotes]({{< ref "/content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/emotes/creating-emotes.md" >}}).

Commit message:

Add link to Virtual Land Manager
Virtual Land Manager (VLM) is a DAO-funded NPM library for SDK6 and SDK7, that allows for custom real-time controls via Colyseus.js

Open source UI, API, and jobs server can be run as your own private node (but docs for doing so are still in the works)

https://github.com/virtuallandmanager/vlm-dcl

Signed-off-by: MetaverseUnknower <96612915+MetaverseUnknower@users.noreply.github.com>

content/creator/_index.md, after:

---
title: Let’s build the metaverse together
date: 2022-02-08
description: Creators intro
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator
aliases:
  - /content-intro/
  - /development-guide/content-intro/
weight: 2
---

All creators are welcome! In Decentraland you have a wide range of Creative possibilities:

- [Scenes](#scenes)
- [Wearables & Smart Wearables](#wearables)
- [Emotes](#emotes)

# Scenes

3D content in Decentraland is made up of scenes, each scene occupies a finite amount of space and is displayed one next to the other for players to freely walk through them.

### Tools

Use these tools to create Decentraland scenes:

- **Web Editor:** A lightweight tool, with no installation. Use an easy drag and drop interface to create scenes.

  [Learn more]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/web-editor/web-editor.md" >}}).

  <img src="/images/intro/web-editor.png" width="600" />

- **Desktop Editor:** An all-in-one content creation tool. For users of any knowledge level, combining a graphical interface with code editing capabilities.

  [Learn more]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/installation-guide.md#the-decentraland-editor" >}}).

  <img src="/images/intro/desktop-editor.png" width="600" />

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: There are also community-built tools for creating Decentraland scenes:

- [**DCL Edit**](https://dcl-edit.com/): Drag and drop 3d models into your scene. You can then work on adding interactivity to the resulting scene using the SDK.
- [**Unity Exporter Toolkit**](https://github.com/PolygonalMind/dcl-dev-exportersdk7-release): Build in Unity, with a number of pre-built interactive modules. Export a fully-working Decentraland scene.
- [**Virtual Land Manager**](https://vlm.gg/): Metaverse Content Management & Analytics. Control various aspects of your scene in real time with the ability to develop your own highly customized controls. View historical graphs of user activity, track your own custom user interactions, export a list of names and wallet addresses currently in your scene, and more.

{{< /hint >}}

### 3D Art

Decentraland scenes are made up of 3D models.

- Chose from the wide catalog of default assets in both the Web Editor and the Desktop Editor. These are ready to go and optimized for using in Decentraland

  <img src="/images/intro/items.png" width="600" />

- Craft your own 3D models using Blender or your preferred 3D tools. Then import them into either the the Web Editor or the Desktop Editor.

  <img src="/images/intro/blender.png" width="600" />

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Content in Decentraland should stay within certain [size limitations]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/optimizing/scene-limitations.md" >}}) to ensure your scene runs smoothly.

See [3D modeling]({{< ref "/content/creator/3d-modeling/3d-models.md" >}}) for tips and tricks for optimizing, and information about supported features and formats for 3D models.
{{< /hint >}}

### Interactivity

To make your scene interactive:

- Use the UI of either the the Web Editor or the Desktop Editor to drop [Smart Items]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/web-editor/smart-items.md" >}}) into your scene. These are models that come pre-built with their own behavior, and are highly customizable. You can also assign the same behaviors to your own custom models (no code required).

  <img src="/images/intro/smart-items.png" width="600" />

- For developers that want to incorporate custom logic, use the SDK in the Desktop Editor to write code and do anything you can imagine. Learn to use the SDK:

  - [Quick start]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/sdk-101.md" >}}): follow this mini tutorial for a quick crash course.
  - [Development workflow]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/dev-workflow.md" >}}): read this to understand scene creation from end to end.
  - [Examples](https://studios.decentraland.org/resources?sdk_version=SDK7): dive right into working example scenes.

    <img src="/images/intro/sdk-code.png" width="600" />

### Publishing your scene

You don't need to own any tokens to start building your scene, with either the Web Editor or the Desktop Editor. To publish your scene, you can chose from the following options:

- **LAND in Genesis City**: This is the main open world in Decentraland, which is split up in 16x16 meter parcels. Buy one or several adjacent parcels in the [Marketplace](https://decentraland.org/marketplace/lands), and deploy your scene there.
- **Decentraland Worlds**: [Worlds]({{< ref "/content/creator/worlds/about.md" >}}) are your own spaces in the metaverse. All you need is to own a [Decentraland name](https://decentraland.org/marketplace/names/claim), and you can publish a scene as big as you want!

See [Kinds of project]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/kinds-of-project.md" >}}) to better understand the different options.

See [publishing]({{< ref "/content/creator/scenes/publishing/publishing.md" >}}) for details and special options when publishing a scene, to either Genesis City or Worlds.

# Wearables

Wearables are items of clothing that player avatars can wear. These are sold as NFTs and purchased in the [Marketplace](https://decentraland.org/marketplace/browse?section=wearables&vendor=decentraland&page=1&sortBy=newest&status=on_sale).

Learn everything about [Creating wearables]({{< ref "/content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/wearables/creating-wearables.md" >}}).

You can also combine a wearable with code from the SDK to create a [smart wearable]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/smart-wearables.md" >}}). This turns on a global scene whenever the player puts on the wearable, and can be used in all sorts of creative ways. See [Kinds of project]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/kinds-of-project.md" >}}) to better understand the different options.

# Emotes

Emotes are animations that a player's avatar can do. These are sold as NFTs and purchased in the [Marketplace](https://decentraland.org/marketplace/browse?assetType=item&section=emotes&vendor=decentraland&page=1&sortBy=newest&status=on_sale).

Learn everything about [Creating emotes]({{< ref "/content/creator/wearables-and-emotes/emotes/creating-emotes.md" >}}).
