content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/external-links.md, before:

---
date: 2020-04-16
title: Outbound links
description: Link to other scenes or external sites
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/external-links/
weight: 6
---

You can add links from your scene out to other content, either to other scenes or to external websites.

## Teleports

To teleport a player to another scene, call the following function, indicating the coordinates that you want players to teleport to.

```ts
import { teleportTo } from "~system/RestrictedActions"

(...)

teleportTo({ worldCoordinates: { x: -51, y: 1 } })
```

Players are presented a confirmation screen before they are teleported, this screen displays information from the destination scene’s `scene.json file`, including the scene `name`, `description` and `navmapThumbnail`. See [scene metadata]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/scene-metadata.md" >}}) for details on how to set this data.

Bare in mind that teleports take you to a scene in the indicated coordinates, but not necessarily to that same coordinates. This means that when travelling to a scene that has multiple parcels, players may not be landing on the same coordinates as specified, but rather into one of the spawn points designated by the creator of the scene.

To move a player to another set of coordinates inside the current scene, use the `movePlayerTo()` function instead. See [Move a Player]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/move-player.md" >}}).

## Teleport to a WORLD

To send a player to a scene that is not published in the open world Genesis City map, but instead to an isolated [Decentraland WORLD]({{< ref "/content/creator/worlds/about.md" >}}), use the function `changeRealm()`.

```ts
import { changeRealm } from "~system/RestrictedActions"

(...)

changeRealm({realm: 'mannakia.dcl.eth'})
```

Players are presented a confirmation screen before they are teleported, this screen displays information from the destination scene’s `scene.json file`, including the scene `name`, `description` and `navmapThumbnail`. See [scene metadata]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/scene-metadata.md" >}}) for details on how to set this data.

The player will spawn in on of the spawn points of the scene in that world, regardless of their current coordinates on the map.

## External links

To add a link to an external website, use the `openExternalUrl()` command.

```ts
import {openExternalUrl} from "~system/RestrictedActions"

openExternalUrl({url: "google.com"})
```

To prevent any abusive usage of this feature to spam players, it's only possible to call the `openExternalUrl` from an explicit click or button event on an entity. It's not possible to call this function as a result of a timer, or a collision area, or a global click event. See [Button events]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/button-events/click-events.md" >}}) for details on how to do this.

When `openExternalUrl` is called, players are prompted with a confirmation screen, where they are informed of where the link will take them, and where can accept of decline to visit the link.

The link is opened in a new tab, keeping the original tab in Decentraland.

If players tick the _trust this domain_ checkbox, they won't be prompted again during their session, as long as the link comes from the same scene and is to the same domain.

Commit message:

New EDITOR section (#415)
* new EDITOR section

* fix links

* multiple edits

* more additions

* fix link

* adjust image sizes and more

* smart items as section

* reorder pages

* expand more

* publish scene - first iteration

* fixes

* retouch intro

* polish editor essentials

* test

* test 2

* bigger titles

* bigger titles

* interlinks

* overall diagram

* fix links

* fix link

* images

* test

* title sizes

* many renames and other changes

* feat: change h6 by h5

* feat: update theme with heading

* h4 > h3

* Creators Hub > Creator Hub

* many changes

* many changes

* 3d content essentials parts

* many fixes

* quickstart first draft

* enhancements

* refine

* finish tutorial

* fixes

* rearrange creator landing

* Creator Hub, not Creators Hub

* adjustments

* bigger image

* retouches

* retouches

* camera-first-draft

* camera docs

* deprecated section

* fix links

* default transition to all camera snippets

* remove comment

* minor fixes to camera

* trigger area and streaming

* creator hub rename

* mention templates

* fixes to camera

* debug in preview

* single player scenes (#435)

* input modifiers

* retouches

* polish 101 tutorial

* add image of avocado

* fix CLI command

* adjust image sizes

* warning about user data

* emotes texture size

* reload when debugging

* version control

* video player basic material

* fix link

* warnings

* global sounds

* more direct download link

* player docs edits

* whitepaper

* URL links to DCL on new client

* fix whitepaper links

* test YT video

* update YT videos

* isStateSynced

* retuouch isSynced snippet

* isSynced retouches

---------

Co-authored-by: Braian Mellor <braianj@gmail.com>

content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/external-links.md, after:

---
date: 2020-04-16
title: Outbound links
description: Link to other scenes or external sites
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/external-links/
weight: 6
---

You can add links from your scene out to other content, either to other scenes or to external websites.

## Use the Scene Editor

The easiest way to add an external link or a teleport is to use the [Scene Editor]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/about-editor.md" >}}). Use the **Teleport** [Smart Item]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/smart-items.md" >}}) to add teleport to another scene in Genesis City, or use any of the **Social Links** smart items to add links to external sites.

<img src="/images/editor/social-links.png" alt="Move entity" width="300"/>

## Teleports

To teleport a player to another scene, call the following function, indicating the coordinates that you want players to teleport to.

```ts
import { teleportTo } from "~system/RestrictedActions"

(...)

teleportTo({ worldCoordinates: { x: -51, y: 1 } })
```

Players are presented a confirmation screen before they are teleported, this screen displays information from the destination scene’s `scene.json file`, including the scene `name`, `description` and `navmapThumbnail`. See [scene metadata]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/scene-metadata.md" >}}) for details on how to set this data.

Bare in mind that teleports take you to a scene in the indicated coordinates, but not necessarily to that same coordinates. This means that when travelling to a scene that has multiple parcels, players may not be landing on the same coordinates as specified, but rather into one of the spawn points designated by the creator of the scene.

To move a player to another set of coordinates inside the current scene, use the `movePlayerTo()` function instead. See [Move a Player]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/move-player.md" >}}).

## Teleport to a WORLD

To send a player to a scene that is not published in the open world Genesis City map, but instead to an isolated [Decentraland WORLD]({{< ref "/content/creator/worlds/about.md" >}}), use the function `changeRealm()`.

```ts
import { changeRealm } from "~system/RestrictedActions"

(...)

changeRealm({realm: 'mannakia.dcl.eth'})
```

Players are presented a confirmation screen before they are teleported, this screen displays information from the destination scene’s `scene.json file`, including the scene `name`, `description` and `navmapThumbnail`. See [scene metadata]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/scene-metadata.md" >}}) for details on how to set this data.

The player will spawn in on of the spawn points of the scene in that world, regardless of their current coordinates on the map.

## External links

To add a link to an external website, use the `openExternalUrl()` command.

```ts
import { openExternalUrl } from '~system/RestrictedActions'

openExternalUrl({ url: 'google.com' })
```

To prevent any abusive usage of this feature to spam players, it's only possible to call the `openExternalUrl` from an explicit click or button event on an entity. It's not possible to call this function as a result of a timer, or a collision area, or a global click event. See [Button events]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/button-events/click-events.md" >}}) for details on how to do this.

When `openExternalUrl` is called, players are prompted with a confirmation screen, where they are informed of where the link will take them, and where can accept of decline to visit the link.

The link is opened in a new tab, keeping the original tab in Decentraland.

If players tick the _trust this domain_ checkbox, they won't be prompted again during their session, as long as the link comes from the same scene and is to the same domain.
