content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/move-player.md, before:

---
date: 2020-08-04
title: Move a player
description: Change a player's position inside the scene
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/move-player/
weight: 2
---

## Use the Scene Editor

The easiest way to move the player is to use the [Scene Editor]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/about-editor.md" >}}). Use the no-code **Move player** or the **Move player here** Actions, see [Make any item smart]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/make-any-item-smart.md" >}}).

## Move player

To change the player's position in the scene, use the `movePlayerTo()` function. This function takes an object with two properties:

- `newRelativePosition`: Where to move the player, expressed as a Vector3.
- `cameraTarget`: (optional) What direction to make the player face, expressed as a Vector3 that represents the coordinates of a point in space to stare at. If no value is provided, the player will maintain the same rotation as before moving.

```ts
import { movePlayerTo } from '~system/RestrictedActions'

// create entity
const myEntity = engine.addEntity()
MeshRenderer.setBox(myEntity)
MeshCollider.setBox(myEntity)

Transform.create(myEntity, {
	position: { x: 4, y: 1, z: 4 },
})

// give entity behavior
pointerEventsSystem.onPointerDown(
	{
		entity: myEntity,
		opts: { button: InputAction.IA_POINTER, hoverText: 'Click' },
	},
	function () {
		// respawn player
		movePlayerTo({
			newRelativePosition: Vector3.create(1, 0, 1),
			cameraTarget: Vector3.create(8, 1, 8),
		})
	}
)
```

The player's movement occurs instantly, without any confirmation screens or camera transitions.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Players can only be moved if they already are standing inside the scene's bounds, and can only be moved to locations that are inside the limits of the scene's bounds. You can't use `movePlayerTo()` to transport a player to another scene. To move a player to another scene, see [Teleports]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/external-links.md#teleports">}}).
{{< /hint >}}

## Required permissions in smart wearables and portable experiences

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Permissions are only relevant in [portable experiences]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/portable-experiences.md" >}}) and [smart wearables]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/smart-wearables.md" >}}). Normal scenes (both in parcels or in Worlds) are free to move the player and are not affected by permissions.
{{< /hint >}}

Smart wearables and portable experiences are only allowed to use this functionality if they add a corresponding permissions on the `scene.json` file. This applies to both predefined and custom animations. This is granted via the `ALLOW_TO_MOVE_PLAYER_INSIDE_SCENE` permission. If not yet present, create a `requiredPermissions` property at root level in the JSON file to assign it this permission.

```json
"requiredPermissions": [
    "ALLOW_TO_MOVE_PLAYER_INSIDE_SCENE"
  ],
```

See [Required permissions]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/scene-metadata.md#required-permissions">}}) for more details.

Commit message:

Avatar rotation in movePlayerTo
Signed-off-by: Nicolas Earnshaw <nearnshaw@decentraland.org>

content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/move-player.md, after:

---
date: 2020-08-04
title: Move a player
description: Change a player's position inside the scene
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/move-player/
weight: 2
---

## Use the Scene Editor

The easiest way to move the player is to use the [Scene Editor]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/about-editor.md" >}}). Use the no-code **Move player** or the **Move player here** Actions, see [Make any item smart]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/make-any-item-smart.md" >}}).

## Move player

To change the player's position in the scene, use the `movePlayerTo()` function. This function takes an object with three properties:

- `newRelativePosition`: Where to position the player, expressed as a Vector3.
- `cameraTarget`: (optional) What direction to make the camera face, expressed as a Vector3 that represents the coordinates of a point in space to stare at. If no value is provided, the camera will maintain the same rotation as before moving.
- `avatarTarget`: (optional) What direction to make the avatar face, expressed as a Vector3 that represents the coordinates of a point in space to stare at. If no value is provided, the avatar will maintain the same rotation as before moving. If the player is in 1st person camera mode, the camera and avatar rotation are the same.

```ts
import { movePlayerTo } from '~system/RestrictedActions'

// create entity
const myEntity = engine.addEntity()
MeshRenderer.setBox(myEntity)
MeshCollider.setBox(myEntity)

Transform.create(myEntity, {
	position: { x: 4, y: 1, z: 4 },
})

// give entity behavior
pointerEventsSystem.onPointerDown(
	{
		entity: myEntity,
		opts: { button: InputAction.IA_POINTER, hoverText: 'Click' },
	},
	function () {
		// respawn player
		movePlayerTo({
			newRelativePosition: Vector3.create(1, 0, 1),
			cameraTarget: Vector3.create(8, 1, 8),
			avatarTarget: Vector3.create(8, 1, 8),
		})
	}
)
```

The player's movement occurs instantly, without any confirmation screens or camera transitions.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Players can only be moved if they already are standing inside the scene's bounds, and can only be moved to locations that are inside the limits of the scene's bounds. You can't use `movePlayerTo()` to transport a player to another scene. To move a player to another scene, see [Teleports]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/external-links.md#teleports">}}).
{{< /hint >}}

## Required permissions in smart wearables and portable experiences

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Permissions are only relevant in [portable experiences]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/portable-experiences.md" >}}) and [smart wearables]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/smart-wearables.md" >}}). Normal scenes (both in parcels or in Worlds) are free to move the player and are not affected by permissions.
{{< /hint >}}

Smart wearables and portable experiences are only allowed to use this functionality if they add a corresponding permissions on the `scene.json` file. This applies to both predefined and custom animations. This is granted via the `ALLOW_TO_MOVE_PLAYER_INSIDE_SCENE` permission. If not yet present, create a `requiredPermissions` property at root level in the JSON file to assign it this permission.

```json
"requiredPermissions": [
    "ALLOW_TO_MOVE_PLAYER_INSIDE_SCENE"
  ],
```

See [Required permissions]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/projects/scene-metadata.md#required-permissions">}}) for more details.
