content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/npc-avatars.md, before:

---
date: 2020-11-04
title: NPC Avatars
description: Display and control NPC avatar
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/npc-avatars/
weight: 2
---


Display an avatar as an entity in a scene.

## Create an avatar

The following snippet creates an avatar with random wearables and body shape, and name "NPC".

```ts
const myAvatar = engine.addEntity()
AvatarShape.create(myAvatar)

Transform.create(myAvatar, {
	position: Vector3.create(4, 0.25, 5)
})
```

When passing data to generate an `AvatarShape`, the following fields are required:

- `id`: (required) Internal identifier for the Avatar


The following optional fields are also available:

- `name`: Name to display over the Avatar's head. Default: "NPC".
- `bodyShape`: String to define which body shape to use.
- `wearables`: Array with list of URNs for wearables that the avatar currently has on. If wearables conflict (like two of them are hats), the last one in the list replaces the other.
- `emotes`: Array with list of URNs for NFT emotes that the avatar is capable of playing 
- `eyeColor`: _Color3_ for the eye color (any color is valid)
- `skinColor`: _Color3_ for the skin color (any color is valid)
- `hairColor`: _Color3_ for the hair color (any color is valid)
- `talking`: If _true_, it displays a green set of bars next to the name, like when players use voice chat in-world.
- 
{{< hint info >}}
**💡 Tip**:  See [color types]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/3d-essentials/color-types.md" >}}) for more details on how to set colors.
{{< /hint >}}

## Animations

Avatars play default idle animations while still.

To play animations on the avatar, set the `expressionTriggerId` string to the name of the animation you want to play.

```ts
const myAvatar = engine.addEntity()
AvatarShape.create(myAvatar, {
	id: "",
	emotes: [],
	wearables: [],
	expressionTriggerId: "robot"
})

Transform.create(myAvatar, {
	position: Vector3.create(4, 0.25, 5)
})
```

## Copy wearables from player

The following snippet creates an NPC avatar that uses the same wearables that the player currently has on. This could be used in a scene as a manequin, to show off a particular wearable or emote combined with the player's current outfit.

```ts
import { getUserData } from "~system/UserIdentity"

executeTask(async () => {
  let userData = await getUserData({})
  console.log(userData.data)


  if(!userData.data || !userData.data.avatar || !userData.data.avatar.wearables) return

  const myAvatar = engine.addEntity()
  AvatarShape.create(myAvatar, {
	id: "Manequin",
	emotes: [],
	wearables: userData.data?.avatar?.wearables
  })

  Transform.create(myAvatar, {
		position: Vector3.create(4, 0.25, 5)
  })
})
```

Commit message:

Imports (#286)
* general info on imports

* test not format on Animator

* notes on import paths

* empty imports

content/creator/sdk7/interactivity/npc-avatars.md, after:

---
date: 2020-11-04
title: NPC Avatars
description: Display and control NPC avatar
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/npc-avatars/
weight: 2
---

Display an avatar as an entity in a scene.

## Create an avatar

The following snippet creates an avatar with random wearables and body shape, and name "NPC".

```ts
const myAvatar = engine.addEntity()
AvatarShape.create(myAvatar)

Transform.create(myAvatar, {
  position: Vector3.create(4, 0.25, 5),
})
```

When passing data to generate an `AvatarShape`, the following fields are required:

- `id`: (required) Internal identifier for the Avatar

The following optional fields are also available:

- `name`: Name to display over the Avatar's head. Default: "NPC".
- `bodyShape`: String to define which body shape to use.
- `wearables`: Array with list of URNs for wearables that the avatar currently has on. If wearables conflict (like two of them are hats), the last one in the list replaces the other.
- `emotes`: Array with list of URNs for NFT emotes that the avatar is capable of playing
- `eyeColor`: _Color3_ for the eye color (any color is valid)
- `skinColor`: _Color3_ for the skin color (any color is valid)
- `hairColor`: _Color3_ for the hair color (any color is valid)
- `talking`: If _true_, it displays a green set of bars next to the name, like when players use voice chat in-world.
- {{< hint info >}}
  **💡 Tip**: See [color types]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/3d-essentials/color-types.md" >}}) for more details on how to set colors.
  {{< /hint >}}

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: The `AvatarShape`component must be imported via

> `import { AvatarShape } from "@dcl/sdk/ecs"`

See [Imports]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/coding-scenes.md#imports" >}}) for how to handle these easily.
{{< /hint >}}

## Animations

Avatars play default idle animations while still.

To play animations on the avatar, set the `expressionTriggerId` string to the name of the animation you want to play.

```ts
const myAvatar = engine.addEntity()
AvatarShape.create(myAvatar, {
  id: '',
  emotes: [],
  wearables: [],
  expressionTriggerId: 'robot',
})

Transform.create(myAvatar, {
  position: Vector3.create(4, 0.25, 5),
})
```

## Copy wearables from player

The following snippet creates an NPC avatar that uses the same wearables that the player currently has on. This could be used in a scene as a manequin, to show off a particular wearable or emote combined with the player's current outfit.

```ts
import { getUserData } from '~system/UserIdentity'

executeTask(async () => {
  let userData = await getUserData({})
  console.log(userData.data)

  if (
    !userData.data ||
    !userData.data.avatar ||
    !userData.data.avatar.wearables
  )
    return

  const myAvatar = engine.addEntity()
  AvatarShape.create(myAvatar, {
    id: 'Manequin',
    emotes: [],
    wearables: userData.data?.avatar?.wearables,
  })

  Transform.create(myAvatar, {
    position: Vector3.create(4, 0.25, 5),
  })
})
```
