---
date: 2022-06-29
title: Debug in Production
description: How you can debug your scene that is running inside Decentraland
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
aliases:
  - /development-guide/debug-in-prod/
url: /creator/development-guide/debug-in-prod/
---

When running a scene that's already deployed to land in Decentraland, there are a number of things you can try out to debug it.

## Before deploying

### Preview

Before you deploy your scene to Decentraland, make sure the scene runs well in preview using the latest version of the Decentraland SDK. See [debug in preview]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-preview.md" >}}).

Although there should always be backwards compatibility of content built with older SDK versions, some platform-level aspects are subject to change over time. For example, lighting, avatar animations, skybox textures, global UIs, etc. By running a preview with the latest SDK version, you're using a newer version of the engine, which should render your scene in a way that's closer to what's used in production.
 

### The test server 

You can deploy scenes to a test server as a staging environment, before publishing them to the live content servers. This server is not frequented by any players that visit Decentraland normally. To enter this server you must manually write its URL, but keep in mind that it's not a private environment.

See [The test server]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md#the-test-server">}}) for details.


## Access debug information



### See logs

Debug information generated by the scenes is hidden from the console by default, but you can activate it by adding the following URL parameter:

`&DEBUG_SCENE_LOG`

Log messages from each active scene will be logged to the console, with coordinates on each message to clarify which scene is generating them.

> Note: As accessing this implies changing the URL and reading the browser console, it's not available when running the scene n the Desktop client.

### See debug panel

To view scene stats, add the following URL parameter:

`&SCENE_DEBUG_PANEL`

This will enable the option of opening a panel that displays stats that update in real time, including material count, entity count, processed messages, etc. See [view scene stats]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-preview.md#view-scene-stats">}}) for details.

With this flag enabled, you'll see a hint on the top-right corner of the screen, and you can press Y to open up this panel and see stats for the scene you're currently standing on.

> Note: As accessing this implies changing the URL, it's not available when running the scene n the Desktop client.


### See FPS panel

To see the current FPS (Frames Per Second) of the explorer, type `/showfps` into the chat window, and this will display the FPS panel.

Keep in mind that these FPS values may vary depending on the machine you're using, and may also be affected by neighboring scenes.

It's still a valuable way to assess the performance of the scene more objectively.

They count the frame per second of the Decentraland explorer, not of a single scene. You can try to isolate what effect neighbors have on the FPS by reducing the line of sight property on the settings, to load less content at a time.








