content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-prod.md, before:

---
date: 2022-06-29
title: Debug in production
description: How you can debug your scene that is running inside Decentraland
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/debug-in-prod/
weight: 2
---

When running a scene that's already deployed to land in Decentraland, there are a number of things you can try out to debug it.

## Before deploying

### Preview

Before you deploy your scene to Decentraland, make sure the scene runs well in preview using the latest version of the Decentraland SDK. See [debug in preview]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-preview.md" >}}).

Although there should always be backwards compatibility of content built with older SDK versions, some platform-level aspects are subject to change over time. For example, lighting, avatar animations, skybox textures, global UIs, etc. By running a preview with the latest SDK version, you're using a newer version of the engine, which should render your scene in a way that's closer to what's used in production.

### The test server

You can deploy scenes to a test server as a staging environment, before publishing them to the live content servers. This server is not frequented by any players that visit Decentraland normally. To enter this server you must manually write its URL, but keep in mind that it's not a private environment.

See [The test server]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md#the-test-server">}}) for details.

## Access debug information

### See logs

Debug information generated by the scenes is hidden from the console by default, but you can activate it by adding the following URL parameter:

`&DEBUG_MODE`

Log messages from each active scene will be logged to the console, with coordinates on each message to clarify which scene is generating them.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: As accessing this implies changing the URL and reading the browser console, it's not available when running the scene n the Desktop client.
{{< /hint >}}

To view the full stack trace of each error message, you must deploy the scene with source maps included. With this you can also navigate the source code and even break points, all from the browser with the scene in production.

To do this, remove the following line from the `.dclignore` file in your scene before you publish the scene:

```
bin/*.map
```

{{< hint danger >}}
**❗Warning** Having the source maps uploaded as part of your scene might make it easier for bad actors to exploit your scene, or steal your code. Make sure you understand the risks of doing this.
{{< /hint >}}

### See debug panel

To view scene stats, add the following URL parameter:

`&SCENE_DEBUG_PANEL`

This will enable the option of opening a panel that displays stats that update in real time, including material count, entity count, processed messages, etc. See [view scene stats]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-preview.md#view-scene-stats">}}) for details.

With this flag enabled, you'll see a hint on the top-right corner of the screen, and you can press Y to open up this panel and see stats for the scene you're currently standing on.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: As accessing this implies changing the URL, it's not available when running the scene n the Desktop client.
{{< /hint >}}

### See FPS panel

To see the current FPS (Frames Per Second) of the explorer, type `/showfps` into the chat window, and this will display the FPS panel.

Keep in mind that these FPS values may vary depending on the machine you're using, and may also be affected by neighboring scenes.

It's still a valuable way to assess the performance of the scene more objectively.

They count the frame per second of the Decentraland explorer, not of a single scene. You can try to isolate what effect neighbors have on the FPS by reducing the line of sight property on the settings, to load less content at a time.

## Report a bug

If you encounter a problem that is not with your scene, but instead with the Decentraland SDK in general, please see [Report a bug]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/report-bug.md">}}).

Commit message:

New EDITOR section (#415)
* new EDITOR section

* fix links

* multiple edits

* more additions

* fix link

* adjust image sizes and more

* smart items as section

* reorder pages

* expand more

* publish scene - first iteration

* fixes

* retouch intro

* polish editor essentials

* test

* test 2

* bigger titles

* bigger titles

* interlinks

* overall diagram

* fix links

* fix link

* images

* test

* title sizes

* many renames and other changes

* feat: change h6 by h5

* feat: update theme with heading

* h4 > h3

* Creators Hub > Creator Hub

* many changes

* many changes

* 3d content essentials parts

* many fixes

* quickstart first draft

* enhancements

* refine

* finish tutorial

* fixes

* rearrange creator landing

* Creator Hub, not Creators Hub

* adjustments

* bigger image

* retouches

* retouches

* camera-first-draft

* camera docs

* deprecated section

* fix links

* default transition to all camera snippets

* remove comment

* minor fixes to camera

* trigger area and streaming

* creator hub rename

* mention templates

* fixes to camera

* debug in preview

* single player scenes (#435)

* input modifiers

* retouches

* polish 101 tutorial

* add image of avocado

* fix CLI command

* adjust image sizes

* warning about user data

* emotes texture size

* reload when debugging

* version control

* video player basic material

* fix link

* warnings

* global sounds

* more direct download link

* player docs edits

* whitepaper

* URL links to DCL on new client

* fix whitepaper links

* test YT video

* update YT videos

* isStateSynced

* retuouch isSynced snippet

* isSynced retouches

---------

Co-authored-by: Braian Mellor <braianj@gmail.com>

content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-prod.md, after:

---
date: 2022-06-29
title: Debug in production
description: How you can debug your scene that is running inside Decentraland
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/debug-in-prod/
weight: 2
---

When running a scene that's already deployed to land in Decentraland, there are a number of things you can try out to debug it.

## Before deploying

### Preview

Before you deploy your scene to Decentraland, make sure the scene runs well in preview using the latest version of the Decentraland SDK. See [debug in preview]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-preview.md" >}}).

Although there should always be backwards compatibility of content built with older SDK versions, some platform-level aspects are subject to change over time. For example, lighting, avatar animations, skybox textures, global UIs, etc. By running a preview with the latest SDK version, you're using a newer version of the engine, which should render your scene in a way that's closer to what's used in production.

### The test server

You can deploy scenes to a test server as a staging environment, before publishing them to the live content servers. This server is not frequented by any players that visit Decentraland normally. To enter this server you must manually write its URL, but keep in mind that it's not a private environment.

See [The test server]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md#the-test-server">}}) for details.

## Quick reload

If you need to reload the scene you're standing on, write the following into the chat and push enter:

`/reload`

## About the publishing pipeline

Keep in mind that after each publish, an internal process optimizes all 3D models before they can be rendered. This takes around 15 minutes. If you visit the scene before this is done, the scene may appear broken. This process runs even if the 3D models were all previously published.

You can check the current state of this process for your scene using [this tool](https://decentraland.github.io/opscli/). If the conversion is complete, all three variations of the assets should have green lights.

<!-- ## Access debug information

### See logs

Debug information generated by the scenes is hidden from the console by default, but you can activate it by adding the following URL parameter:

`&DEBUG_MODE`

Log messages from each active scene will be logged to the console, with coordinates on each message to clarify which scene is generating them.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: As accessing this implies changing the URL and reading the browser console, it's not available when running the scene n the Desktop client.
{{< /hint >}}

To view the full stack trace of each error message, you must deploy the scene with source maps included. With this you can also navigate the source code and even break points, all from the browser with the scene in production.

To do this, remove the following line from the `.dclignore` file in your scene before you publish the scene:

```
bin/*.map
```

{{< hint danger >}}
**❗Warning** Having the source maps uploaded as part of your scene might make it easier for bad actors to exploit your scene, or steal your code. Make sure you understand the risks of doing this.
{{< /hint >}}

### See debug panel

To view scene stats, add the following URL parameter:

`&SCENE_DEBUG_PANEL`

This will enable the option of opening a panel that displays stats that update in real time, including material count, entity count, processed messages, etc. See [view scene stats]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-preview.md#view-scene-stats">}}) for details.

With this flag enabled, you'll see a hint on the top-right corner of the screen, and you can press Y to open up this panel and see stats for the scene you're currently standing on.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: As accessing this implies changing the URL, it's not available when running the scene n the Desktop client.
{{< /hint >}}

### See FPS panel

To see the current FPS (Frames Per Second) of the explorer, type `/showfps` into the chat window, and this will display the FPS panel.

Keep in mind that these FPS values may vary depending on the machine you're using, and may also be affected by neighboring scenes.

It's still a valuable way to assess the performance of the scene more objectively.

They count the frame per second of the Decentraland explorer, not of a single scene. You can try to isolate what effect neighbors have on the FPS by reducing the line of sight property on the settings, to load less content at a time. -->

## Report a bug

If you encounter a problem that is not with your scene, but instead with the Decentraland SDK in general, please see [Report a bug]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/report-bug.md">}}).
