content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/installation-guide.md, before:

---
date: 2018-01-01
title: Editor Installation Guide
description: Step-by-step guide to installing the SDK
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
aliases:
  - /documentation/installation-guide/
  - /getting-started/installation-guide/
  - /development-guide/installation-guide/
  - /creator/editor/installation-guide
  - /creator/development-guide/installation-guide
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/installation-guide/
weight: 2
---

The Decentraland Editor is a Visual Studio extension, that allows you to build, preview and deploy Decentraland scenes.

<img src="/images/editor/editor-header.png" alt="Header" width="100%"/>

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: For a simple no-code scene creation tool that doesn't require any installation, check out the [Builder](https://decentraland.org/builder/scenes).
{{< /hint >}}

To install the Decentraland Editor:

1. Install <img src="/images/editor/vscode.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), if you don't have it already.

2. Open Visual Studio Code, and open the <img src="/images/editor/vscode-extensions.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> **extensions** marketplace.

3. Search for the <img src="/images/editor/dcl-logo.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> **Decentraland Editor SDK7** extension and click **Install**. You'll then need to restart Visual Studio to use the extension.

   <img src="/images/editor/editor-installation.png" alt="Header" width="100%"/>

   {{< hint warning >}}
   **📔 Note**: There are two versions of the editor, the **Decentraland Editor SDK6** and the **Decentraland Editor SDK7**. As their names suggest, each version of the editor is meant for working on Decentraland scenes built with different SDK versions. You can have both extensions active in your same installation of Visual Studio Code, and use them accordingly depending on what project you're working with.
   {{< /hint >}}

4. You'll then need to **restart Visual Studio** to use the extension.

## Troubleshooting

If you run into issues, see the [troubleshooting]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/troubleshooting.md" >}}) section.

Commit message:

New EDITOR section (#415)
* new EDITOR section

* fix links

* multiple edits

* more additions

* fix link

* adjust image sizes and more

* smart items as section

* reorder pages

* expand more

* publish scene - first iteration

* fixes

* retouch intro

* polish editor essentials

* test

* test 2

* bigger titles

* bigger titles

* interlinks

* overall diagram

* fix links

* fix link

* images

* test

* title sizes

* many renames and other changes

* feat: change h6 by h5

* feat: update theme with heading

* h4 > h3

* Creators Hub > Creator Hub

* many changes

* many changes

* 3d content essentials parts

* many fixes

* quickstart first draft

* enhancements

* refine

* finish tutorial

* fixes

* rearrange creator landing

* Creator Hub, not Creators Hub

* adjustments

* bigger image

* retouches

* retouches

* camera-first-draft

* camera docs

* deprecated section

* fix links

* default transition to all camera snippets

* remove comment

* minor fixes to camera

* trigger area and streaming

* creator hub rename

* mention templates

* fixes to camera

* debug in preview

* single player scenes (#435)

* input modifiers

* retouches

* polish 101 tutorial

* add image of avocado

* fix CLI command

* adjust image sizes

* warning about user data

* emotes texture size

* reload when debugging

* version control

* video player basic material

* fix link

* warnings

* global sounds

* more direct download link

* player docs edits

* whitepaper

* URL links to DCL on new client

* fix whitepaper links

* test YT video

* update YT videos

* isStateSynced

* retuouch isSynced snippet

* isSynced retouches

---------

Co-authored-by: Braian Mellor <braianj@gmail.com>

content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/installation-guide.md, after:

---
date: 2018-01-01
title: Installation Guide
description: Step-by-step guide to installing the SDK
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
aliases:
  - /documentation/installation-guide/
  - /getting-started/installation-guide/
  - /development-guide/installation-guide/
  - /creator/editor/installation-guide
  - /creator/development-guide/installation-guide
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/installation-guide/
weight: 2
---

## Creator Hub

The **Creator Hub** is the recommended tool for creating content for Decentraland.

See installation instructions on [Creator Hub Installation]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/editor-installation.md" >}})

<!-- TODO
image & more info
 -->

## VS Code Extension

The Decentraland Visual Studio Code extension allows you to build, preview and deploy Decentraland scenes.

<img src="/images/editor/editor-header.png" alt="Header" width="100%"/>

To install the Decentraland Visual Studio Code extension:

1. Install <img src="/images/editor/vscode.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), if you don't have it already.

2. Open Visual Studio Code, and open the <img src="/images/editor/vscode-extensions.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> **extensions** marketplace.

3. Search for the <img src="/images/editor/dcl-logo.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> **Decentraland Editor SDK7** extension and click **Install**. You'll then need to restart Visual Studio to use the extension.

   <img src="/images/editor/editor-installation.png" alt="Header" width="100%"/>

   {{< hint warning >}}
   **📔 Note**: There are two versions of the VS Code extension, the **Decentraland Editor SDK6** and the **Decentraland Editor SDK7**. As their names suggest, each version is meant for working on Decentraland scenes built with different SDK versions. You can have both extensions active in your same installation of Visual Studio Code, and use them accordingly depending on what project you're working with.
   {{< /hint >}}

4. You'll then need to **restart Visual Studio** to use the extension.

## Troubleshooting

If you run into issues, see the [troubleshooting]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/troubleshooting.md" >}}) section.
