content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/SDK-101.md, before:

---
date: 2018-02-11
title: Quick start
description: Getting started with the SDK
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/sdk-101/
weight: 1
---

The Decentraland SDK is a powerful tool that lets you create scenes by writing in Typescript (Javascript + Types).

This mini-tutorial walks you through how to get set up, and shows you the basic parts of a Decentraland scene.

## Install the CLI

The Command Line Interface (CLI) allows you to compile and preview your scene locally. After testing your scene locally, you can use the CLI to upload your content to Decentraland.

> **Note**: Install the following dependencies before you install the CLI:
>
> - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 14 or later)

To install the CLI, run the following command in your command line tool of choice:

```bash
npm install -g decentraland
```

> TIP: If you don't know how to **open the command line**, in **Windows**: right click on the Start button, then search for "_cmd_" and select the "Command Prompt". In **Mac**: open the Launchpad and look for "_Terminal_".

Read [Installation guide]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/installation-guide.md" >}}) for more details about installing the CLI.

## Create your first scene

Create a new scene by going to an _empty folder_ and running the following command:

```bash
dcl init
```

> TIP: If you don't know how to point the command line tool to a folder: first create the folder via the file explorer, then in the command line write "cd" (short for "change directory"), followed by a space. Drag the new folder from the file explorer window to the command line window. It will autocomplete the command to include the full path to the folder. The resulting command tells the terminal to change directory to that folder. Then press enter.

The `dcl init` command will prompt you about what kind of project to create. Select **Scene**, then pick the first option, **Cube Spawner**.

Preview the 3D scene in your browser by running the following command in that same folder:

```bash
dcl start
```

Read more about the scene preview in [preview a scene]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/preview-scene.md" >}})

## Edit the scene

Open the `src/index.ts` file from your scene folder with the source code editor of your choice.

> Tip: We recommend using a source code editor like [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [Atom](https://atom.io/). An editor like this helps you by marking syntax errors, autocompleting while you write and even showing smart suggestions that depend on context. Also click on an object to see the full definition of its class.

Change anything you want from this code, for example change the _x_ position of the first `cube` entity that's spawned (on line 42). If you kept the preview running in a browser tab, you should now see the changes show in the preview.

Download this 3D model of an avocado from the scene's [GitHub repo](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/avocado) in _glTF_ format. [link](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/avocado/raw/main/Avocado.zip).

![](/images/media/avocado.jpg)

Create a new folder under your scene’s directory named `/models`. Extract the downloaded file and place all of its contents in that folder. Note that there are several files that make up the 3D model, all of them must be in the same path.

At the end of your scene’s code, add the following lines:

```ts
let avocado = engine.addEntity()

GltfContainer.create(avocado, {src: ("models/avocado.gltf"})

Transform.create(avocado, {
	  position:  Vector3.create(3, 1, 3),
	  scale: Vector3.create(10, 10, 10)
	})
```

You can also download the finished scene from its [GitHub repo](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/avocado).

Check your scene preview once again to see that the 3D model is now there too.

![](/images/media/avocado.jpg)

The lines you just added create a new [entity]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/architecture/entities-components.md" >}}), give it a [shape]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/3d-essentials/shape-components.md" >}}) based on the 3D model you downloaded, and [set its position and scale]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/3d-essentials/entity-positioning.md" >}}).

Note that the avocado you added rotates smoothly, just like all other entities in the scene. That's because the `RotatorSystem` [system]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/architecture/systems.md" >}}) that was defined in the default code of this scene is running. This system runs a function on every frame (30 times a second). This system in particular tells every entity in the scene to rotate just a tiny bit, once per frame. If you delete or comment out the code for this system, entities stop rotating.

<!--
## The Utils library

The Decentraland ESC Utils library includes a number of helper functions and specialized components that make it easier to carry out a lot of common use cases.

To use any of the helpers provided by the Utils library:

1. Install it as an npm package. Run this command on the command line, from your scene's project folder:

   ```
   npm install @dcl/ecs-scene-utils -B
   ```

2. Run the following for the scene to build the necessary files inside the library's folder:

   ```
   dcl start
   ```

3. Add this line at the start of your `index.ts` file:

   ```ts
   import * as utils from "@dcl/ecs-scene-utils"
   ```

4. In your TypeScript file, write `utils.` and let the suggestions of your IDE show the available helpers. You'll see there are a number of functions you can run and of components that can be added to entities.

5. Add the following component from the `utils` library to your avocado entity to make it slowly grow. The provided arguments make it grow from a scale of 1 to a scale of 5 over a period of 10 seconds:

	```ts
	avocado.addComponent(new utils.ScaleTransformComponent(
		new Vector3(1,1,1), 
		new Vector3(5, 5, 5), 
		10
	))
	```
	The `ScaleTransformComponent` requires the following parameters:

	 * `start`: Starting scale.
     * `end`: Ending scale.
     * `duration`: Duration (in seconds) of start to end scaling.

	 > TIP: Your code editor will hint this information to you once you typed `new utils.ScaleTransformComponent(`.

6. Notice that the `ScaleTransformComponent` component also takes two other optional more advanced parameters that you can play around with:

	* `onFinishCallback`: A function that is called when the transition ends.
    * `interpolationType`: Type of interpolation to be used.

	```ts
	avocado.addComponent(new utils.ScaleTransformComponent(
		new Vector3(1,1,1), 
		new Vector3(5, 5, 5), 
		4,
		()=>{ console.log("FINISHED") },
		utils.InterpolationType.EASEOUTELASTIC
	))
	```
	In the fourth parameter, a very simple function prints the text "FINISHED" to the browser console once the transition is over. 
	
	> TIP: To read the message that is printed to the console, in Chrome go to **View > Developer > Javascript console**.

	The final parameter tells the component to perform the transition using an ease-out elastic interpolation, which results in a speed curve that goes from fast to slow and ends with a bouncy effect.

To learn more about the ECS Utils library, read its full documentation [here](https://github.com/decentraland/decentraland-ecs-utils).

-->

## More Tutorials

Read [coding-scenes]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/coding-scenes.md" >}}) for a high-level understanding of how Decentraland scenes function.

Read our [tutorials](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/Awesome-Repository#Tutorials) or view or [video tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLAcRraQmr_GPi-8qgv17ewdGl50OHuOhH) for detailed instructions for building basic scenes.

To see our official example scenes, with links to their code, see [scene examples](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/Awesome-Repository#Examples).

See the **Development guide** section for more instructions about adding content to your scene.


## Engage with other developers

Visit [Discord](https://dcl.gg/discord), join a lively discussion about what’s possible and how!

To debug any issues, we encourage that you to check the [Troubleshooting]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/troubleshooting.md" >}}) and [debug]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-preview.md" >}}) sections in the documentation. If you don't find a solution there, you can post issues to the [SDK Support category](https://forum.decentraland.org/c/support-sdk/11) Decentraland Forum.

You can also post to [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/ask?tags=+[decentraland-ecs]), using the tags `decentraland` or `decentraland-ecs`.

You can also ask in [Discord](https://dcl.gg/discord). In the **Support** section, the **#sdk** channel is for questions regarding code, the **#builder-and-3d** channel is for questions regarding 3D models and art. **#code-contribution** is for discussing PRs to the SDK codebase.

## 3D Art Assets

A good experience will have great 3D art to go with it. If you're keen on creating those 3D models yourself, you're encouraged to, see the [3D Modeling section of our docs](/creator/3d-modeling/3d-models) for more info. But if you prefer to focus on the coding or game design side of things, you don't need to create your own assets!

Here are a few tips to get great 3D models that you can use in a Decentraland scene:

- Build a scene in the Decentraland [Builder](https://builder.decentraland.org) and export it, together with all its assets, to keep working on it with the SDK.
- Download all the 3D assets available in the Builder from [this repo](https://github.com/decentraland/builder-assets/tree/master/assets)
- [SketchFab](https://sketchfab.com/)
- [Clara.io](https://clara.io/)
- [Archive3D](https://archive3d.net/)
- [SketchUp 3D Warehouse](https://3dwarehouse.sketchup.com/)
- [Thingiverse](https://www.thingiverse.com/) (3D models made primarily for 3D printing, but adaptable to Virtual Worlds)
- [ShareCG](https://www.sharecg.com/)
- [CGTrader](https://CGTrader.com)

> Note: Models must be in the supported `.gltf` or `.glb` formats, and must have a number of triangles, textures and materials that adhere to the [scene limitations]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/optimizing/scene-limitations.md" >}}). If getting models from a third party site, pay attention to the licence restrictions that the content you download has.


## Publish your scene

If you own LAND, or have permissions given by someone that does, you can upload your scene to Decentraland. See [publishing]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md" >}}).

If you don't own land, you can still upload your scene for free to third party services, so you can easily share your creations with others as a link. See [Deploy to third party]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/deploy-third-party.md" >}}).

## Other useful information

- [Awesome Repository](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/Awesome-Repository)
- [ECS Utils library](https://github.com/decentraland/decentraland-ecs-utils)
- [Design constraints for games](/creator/design-experience/design-games)
- [3D modeling](/creator/3d-modeling/3d-models)
- [Scene limitations]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/optimizing/scene-limitations.md" >}})

Commit message:

update Quickstart guide for SDK7
Signed-off-by: Nicolas Earnshaw <nearnshaw@decentraland.org>

content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/SDK-101.md, after:

---
date: 2018-02-11
title: Quick start
description: Getting started with the SDK
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/sdk-101/
weight: 1
---

The Decentraland SDK is a powerful tool that lets you create scenes by writing in Typescript (Javascript + Types).

This mini-tutorial walks you through how to get set up, and shows you the basic parts of a Decentraland scene.

## Install the CLI

The Command Line Interface (CLI) allows you to compile and preview your scene locally. After testing your scene locally, you can use the CLI to upload your content to Decentraland.

> **Note**: Install the following dependencies before you install the CLI:
>
> - [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 14 or later)

To install the CLI, run the following command in your command line tool of choice:

```bash
npm install -g decentraland
```

> TIP: If you don't know how to **open the command line**, in **Windows**: right click on the Start button, then search for "_cmd_" and select the "Command Prompt". In **Mac**: open the Launchpad and look for "_Terminal_".

Read [Installation guide]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/installation-guide.md" >}}) for more details about installing the CLI.

## Clone a template scene

Clone the following template scene to your local machine. Click the **Use this template** button, then select **create a new repository** to clone it.

[sdk7-scene-template](https://github.com/decentraland/sdk7-scene-template)

This project includes all the necessary files to run a Decentraland scene locally, and includes some basic functionality already working.

<!--
## Create your first scene

Create a new scene by going to an _empty folder_ and running the following command:

```bash
dcl init
```

> TIP: If you don't know how to point the command line tool to a folder: first create the folder via the file explorer, then in the command line write "cd" (short for "change directory"), followed by a space. Drag the new folder from the file explorer window to the command line window. It will autocomplete the command to include the full path to the folder. The resulting command tells the terminal to change directory to that folder. Then press enter.

The `dcl init` command will prompt you about what kind of project to create. Select **Scene**, then pick the first option, **Cube Spawner**.
-->

Preview the 3D scene in your browser by running the following command in that same folder:

```bash
dcl start
```

Read more about the scene preview in [preview a scene]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/preview-scene.md" >}})

## Edit the scene

Open the `src/index.ts` file from your scene folder with the source code editor of your choice.

> Tip: We recommend using a source code editor like [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [Atom](https://atom.io/). An editor like this helps you by marking syntax errors, autocompleting while you write and even showing smart suggestions that depend on context. Also click on an object to see the full definition of its class.

Change anything you want from this code, for example change the _x_ position of the first `cube` entity that's spawned (on line 22). If you kept the preview running in a browser tab, you should now see the changes show in the preview.

Download this 3D model of an avocado from the scene's [GitHub repo](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/avocado) in _glTF_ format. [link](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/avocado/raw/main/Avocado.zip).

![](/images/media/avocado.jpg)

Create a new folder under your scene’s directory named `/models`. Extract the downloaded file and place all of its contents in that folder. Note that there are several files that make up the 3D model, all of them must be in the same path.

At the end of your scene’s `index.ts` file, add the following lines:

```ts
let avocado = engine.addEntity()

GltfContainer.create(avocado, {src: ("models/avocado.gltf"})

Transform.create(avocado, {
	  position:  Vector3.create(3, 1, 3),
	  scale: Vector3.create(10, 10, 10)
	})
```

Check your scene preview once again to see that the 3D model is now there too.

![](/images/media/avocado.jpg)

The lines you just added create a new [entity]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/architecture/entities-components.md" >}}), give it a [shape]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/3d-essentials/shape-components.md" >}}) based on the 3D model you downloaded, and [set its position and scale]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/3d-essentials/entity-positioning.md" >}}).

Note that the cubes in your scene all rotate smoothly, but not the avocado you just added. That's because a [system]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/architecture/systems.md" >}}) named `circularSystem` that comes defined in this template in the `systems.ts` file is running. This system runs a function on every frame (30 times a second). This system in particular tells every entity that has both a `MeshRenderer` and a `Transform` component in the scene to rotate just a tiny bit, once per frame. Your avocado model doesn't have a `MeshRenderer` comopnent, so it's not affected by this system. If you delete or comment out the code for this system, all entities stop rotating.

<!--
## The Utils library

The Decentraland ESC Utils library includes a number of helper functions and specialized components that make it easier to carry out a lot of common use cases.

To use any of the helpers provided by the Utils library:

1. Install it as an npm package. Run this command on the command line, from your scene's project folder:

   ```
   npm install @dcl/ecs-scene-utils -B
   ```

2. Run the following for the scene to build the necessary files inside the library's folder:

   ```
   dcl start
   ```

3. Add this line at the start of your `index.ts` file:

   ```ts
   import * as utils from "@dcl/ecs-scene-utils"
   ```

4. In your TypeScript file, write `utils.` and let the suggestions of your IDE show the available helpers. You'll see there are a number of functions you can run and of components that can be added to entities.

5. Add the following component from the `utils` library to your avocado entity to make it slowly grow. The provided arguments make it grow from a scale of 1 to a scale of 5 over a period of 10 seconds:

	```ts
	avocado.addComponent(new utils.ScaleTransformComponent(
		new Vector3(1,1,1), 
		new Vector3(5, 5, 5), 
		10
	))
	```
	The `ScaleTransformComponent` requires the following parameters:

	 * `start`: Starting scale.
     * `end`: Ending scale.
     * `duration`: Duration (in seconds) of start to end scaling.

	 > TIP: Your code editor will hint this information to you once you typed `new utils.ScaleTransformComponent(`.

6. Notice that the `ScaleTransformComponent` component also takes two other optional more advanced parameters that you can play around with:

	* `onFinishCallback`: A function that is called when the transition ends.
    * `interpolationType`: Type of interpolation to be used.

	```ts
	avocado.addComponent(new utils.ScaleTransformComponent(
		new Vector3(1,1,1), 
		new Vector3(5, 5, 5), 
		4,
		()=>{ console.log("FINISHED") },
		utils.InterpolationType.EASEOUTELASTIC
	))
	```
	In the fourth parameter, a very simple function prints the text "FINISHED" to the browser console once the transition is over. 
	
	> TIP: To read the message that is printed to the console, in Chrome go to **View > Developer > Javascript console**.

	The final parameter tells the component to perform the transition using an ease-out elastic interpolation, which results in a speed curve that goes from fast to slow and ends with a bouncy effect.

To learn more about the ECS Utils library, read its full documentation [here](https://github.com/decentraland/decentraland-ecs-utils).

-->

## More Tutorials

Read [coding-scenes]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/coding-scenes.md" >}}) for a high-level understanding of how Decentraland scenes function.

For examples that are built with SDK7, check out the [Goerli plaza repository](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/sdk7-goerli-plaza) that contains several small scenes, all written with SDK7.

<!--
Read our [tutorials](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/Awesome-Repository#Tutorials) or view or [video tutorials](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLAcRraQmr_GPi-8qgv17ewdGl50OHuOhH) for detailed instructions for building basic scenes.

To see our official example scenes, with links to their code, see [scene examples](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/Awesome-Repository#Examples).
-->

See the **Development guide** section for more instructions about adding content to your scene.


## Engage with other developers

Visit [Discord](https://dcl.gg/discord), join a lively discussion about what’s possible and how!

To debug any issues, we encourage that you to check the [Troubleshooting]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/troubleshooting.md" >}}) and [debug]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/debug-in-preview.md" >}}) sections in the documentation. If you don't find a solution there, you can post issues to the [SDK Support category](https://forum.decentraland.org/c/support-sdk/11) Decentraland Forum.

You can also post to [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/ask?tags=+[decentraland-ecs]), using the tags `decentraland` or `decentraland-ecs`.

You can also ask in [Discord](https://dcl.gg/discord). In the **Support** section, the **#sdk** channel is for questions regarding code, the **#builder-and-3d** channel is for questions regarding 3D models and art. **#code-contribution** is for discussing PRs to the SDK codebase.

## 3D Art Assets

A good experience will have great 3D art to go with it. If you're keen on creating those 3D models yourself, you're encouraged to, see the [3D Modeling section of our docs](/creator/3d-modeling/3d-models) for more info. But if you prefer to focus on the coding or game design side of things, you don't need to create your own assets!

Here are a few tips to get great 3D models that you can use in a Decentraland scene:

- Build a scene in the Decentraland [Builder](https://builder.decentraland.org) and export it, together with all its assets, to keep working on it with the SDK.
- Download all the 3D assets available in the Builder from [this repo](https://github.com/decentraland/builder-assets/tree/master/assets)
- [SketchFab](https://sketchfab.com/)
- [Clara.io](https://clara.io/)
- [Archive3D](https://archive3d.net/)
- [SketchUp 3D Warehouse](https://3dwarehouse.sketchup.com/)
- [Thingiverse](https://www.thingiverse.com/) (3D models made primarily for 3D printing, but adaptable to Virtual Worlds)
- [ShareCG](https://www.sharecg.com/)
- [CGTrader](https://CGTrader.com)

> Note: Models must be in the supported `.gltf` or `.glb` formats, and must have a number of triangles, textures and materials that adhere to the [scene limitations]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/optimizing/scene-limitations.md" >}}). If getting models from a third party site, pay attention to the licence restrictions that the content you download has.


## Publish your scene

If you own LAND, or have permissions given by someone that does, you can upload your scene to Decentraland. See [publishing]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md" >}}).

If you don't own land, you can still upload your scene for free to third party services, so you can easily share your creations with others as a link. See [Deploy to third party]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/deploy-third-party.md" >}}).

## Other useful information

- [Awesome Repository](https://github.com/decentraland-scenes/Awesome-Repository)
- [ECS Utils library](https://github.com/decentraland/decentraland-ecs-utils)
- [Design constraints for games](/creator/design-experience/design-games)
- [3D modeling](/creator/3d-modeling/3d-models)
- [Scene limitations]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/optimizing/scene-limitations.md" >}})
