---
date: 2022-09-27
title: FAQ
description: Events FAQ
aliases:
categories:
  - events
type: Document
url: /player/events/faq
---

Below you can find the **frequently asked questions** about events in Decentraland.

## General

**Do I need to own LAND to host an event?**

No, you can create an event anywhere in Decentraland for free.

**Do I need a wallet to host an event?**

Yes, you need to sign in with a wallet to create an event. Read our guide to find out about [creating a wallet](https://docs.decentraland.org/player/blockchain-integration/get-a-wallet/).

## Event details

**What resolution should my event cover be?**

Your event cover should be 1340 pixels wide and 670 pixels tall (1340x670). A 2:1 aspect ratio.

**What file format should my event cover be?**

Upload your event cover as a PNG, JPG or GIF. The maximum file size is 500kb.

**What are longitude and latitude?**

Longitude and latitude are the X and Y coordinates of the map in Decentraland. Add the coordinates of the location where you want to host your event.

**Should I choose a specific server for my event?**

When you enter Decentraland you connect to one of our servers. Choose a specific server for your event so that everyone who joins the event at the same time will be able to see each other.

**What is the UTC time zone?**

UTC is Coordinated Universal Time.

**Which category should I choose?**

Choose the category which best matches your event. If you would like to propose a new category, you can [submit a proposal](https://docs.decentraland.org/player/general/dao/dao-userguide/) in the [DAO](https://governance.decentraland.org/).

## Submitting your event

**How long will it take for my event to be reviewed?**

Review times depend on day/time of event submission, but won’t take longer than a few hours.

**Who reviews the events?**

Events are reviewed by the team at the Decentraland Foundation.

**Why do I need to add my email or Discord username?**

Add your email or Discord username so we can contact you if there is something wrong with your event submission.

**Can I edit my event once it is published?**

Yes you can edit your event at any time.

**My event wasn't published, why not?**

Your event may not have passed review because you did not fill in all the required information. Make sure you complete every field in the form when submitting an event.

## Promotion

**How can I promote my event?**

Share your event on social media to promote it.

# More help

For more help, join the [Decentraland Discord](https://decentraland.org/discord) and post a question in the Support section.
