content/creator/wearables/publishing-wearables.md, before:

---
date: 2021-05-31
title: Publishing wearables
aliases:
  - /wearables/publishing-wearables/
  - /decentraland/publishing-wearables/
description: A description of the publication and approval process for Decentraland wearables
categories:
  - Decentraland
type: Document
url: /creator/wearables/publishing-wearables
weight: 3
---

For detailed instructions on how to submit your wearable collection for approval before publication, see the [User Guide](https://docs.decentraland.org/decentraland/wearables-editor-user-guide/). This document explains how the approval process works when publishing wearables, and what criteria is used by the Curation Committee when reviewing wearables. For detailed information on the Curation Committee, [start here]({{< ref "/content/creator/wearables/curation-committee.md" >}}).

### The publication process

1. After clicking “Publish” on your completed proposal, it will be submitted to the Curation Committee for approval. Collections pending approval will be flagged as “Under Review”.
2. Any collections pending approval from the Curation Committee may not be minted until the approval process is completed.
3. Each time you publish a new collection, a post is automatically created on the Decentraland Forum, providing a list and overview of each item in the collection. This Forum post gives the community and the Curation Committee a space to share feedback or request any changes that you need to make before your collection can be approved.
4. If there are changes you need to make, the Curation Committee will notify you in the Forum thread for your collection.
5. After any needed changes have been made, you can resubmit your collection for approval. (Collections may be reviewed and rejected multiple times before final approval.)
6. Once your collection has final approval, you will be notified in the Forum. You will also see a visual indicator in the Wearable Editor next to the approved collection.
7. With a successful approval, you can begin minting items in your collection!

### Publication fees 

There is a required fee for publishing items. This fee was originally [voted in place by the Decentraland DAO](https://governance.decentraland.org/en/proposal/?id=50092c00-c315-11eb-ac84-1705d1ae4a66) to deter users from publishing an excessive number of wearables in an attempt to “spam” the wearables market.

The [most recent vote](https://governance.decentraland.org/proposal/?id=b8075360-e8e7-11ec-82d9-d917cdd158ac) regarding publication fees has pegged them to a fixed amount of 150 United States dollars per item, to be paid in MANA.

For example, if you publish a collection with two items and the price of MANA at the time is 1.5 USD, you will have to pay a fee of 200 MANA (150 USD for each item divided by the price of MANA in USD) regardless of the rarity (or how many NFTs can be minted) of those items.

These fees are transferred to the curators committee and the Decentraland DAO, where they are used to help fund the growth of the platform through grants and other initiatives voted on by the greater Decentraland community.

> **Note:** Currently, due to the time and resources required to review each collection submitted, **the 150 USD in MANA publication fee is non-refundable**. If your collection is rejected, you will not receive your MANA back. If your collection is not immediately approved, the Curation Committee will provide you with suggestions and feedback on how to improve it, but the final acceptance of your collection cannot be guaranteed.

### Acceptance criteria

Following is an overview of the criteria used by the Curation Committee when determining a collection’s eligibility. Much of this criteria is based on Section 2 of Decentraland’s [Content Policy](https://decentraland.org/content/).

Specifically, wearables may not:

- Involve illegality, such as piracy, criminal activity, terrorism, or child pornography
- Infringe third party intellectual property rights
- Contain cruel or hateful imagery that could harm, harass, promote or condone violence against, or that is primarily intended to incite hatred of, animals, or individuals or groups based on race or ethnic origin, religion, nationality, disability, gender, age, veteran status, or sexual orientation/gender identity
- Contain content that is libelous, false, inaccurate, misleading, or invades another person's privacy
- Breach the Privacy Policy
- Contain any content that promotes or could be construed as primarily intending to evade the limitations described above

Please refer to the full Content Policy [here](https://decentraland.org/content/) for additional details and definitions. Any submissions that violate the above criteria will be rejected.

**In addition to the Content Policy, the committee may reject wearable submissions on the following technical conditions:**

- It is important that wearables be “skin weighted” correctly so that the avatar animations can be rendered as expected. Wearables without correct skin weighting will be rejected.
- Wearables must preserve avatar UV mapping to ensure that user-selected skin tones can be rendered as expected.
- The dimensions of eyebrow, eye, and mouth textures should not exceed 256 by 256px, and these textures must include an alpha channel for transparency.
- Wearables with a disproportionate number of triangles and textures may be rejected. Wearables with too many triangles and textures can result in poor performance and a bad experience for users, so creators should avoid exceeding the following guidelines when creating wearables:
  
  - No more than 1.5K triangles per wearable (except skin category)
  - No more than 500 triangles per accessories
  - No more than 2 textures (at a resolution of 512x512px or lower) per wearable. All textures must be square.
  - No more than 5k triangles for skin category and 5 textures (at a resolution of 512x512px or lower). All textures must be square.

- Wearables may not contain duplicate items within a collection. (Each item within a collection must be unique.)
- Wearables may not mimic or copy other wearables that have already been published.
- Wearables with misleading categories may be rejected; for example, a hat that is categorized as a lower body item.
- Wearables must follow the armature humanoid structure to ensure a good quality gameplay. In this sense, currently vehicles or pets are not allowed because these are not wearables by definition.
- Curators from the curators committee can submit collections but not approve their own. In this case, another curator from the committee would needs to review in order and approve or reject.

Commit message:

Fix a link and add Polygon clarification (#21)
Fixed the link to the governance proposal and metioned that MANA must be in the Polygon network to pay for publication fees, and added a note on how to move MANA between Ethereum and Polygon

content/creator/wearables/publishing-wearables.md, after:

---
date: 2021-05-31
title: Publishing wearables
aliases:
  - /wearables/publishing-wearables/
  - /decentraland/publishing-wearables/
description: A description of the publication and approval process for Decentraland wearables
categories:
  - Decentraland
type: Document
url: /creator/wearables/publishing-wearables
weight: 3
---

For detailed instructions on how to submit your wearable collection for approval before publication, see the [User Guide](https://docs.decentraland.org/decentraland/wearables-editor-user-guide/). This document explains how the approval process works when publishing wearables, and what criteria is used by the Curation Committee when reviewing wearables. For detailed information on the Curation Committee, [start here]({{< ref "/content/creator/wearables/curation-committee.md" >}}).

### The publication process

1. After clicking “Publish” on your completed proposal, it will be submitted to the Curation Committee for approval. Collections pending approval will be flagged as “Under Review”.
2. Any collections pending approval from the Curation Committee may not be minted until the approval process is completed.
3. Each time you publish a new collection, a post is automatically created on the Decentraland Forum, providing a list and overview of each item in the collection. This Forum post gives the community and the Curation Committee a space to share feedback or request any changes that you need to make before your collection can be approved.
4. If there are changes you need to make, the Curation Committee will notify you in the Forum thread for your collection.
5. After any needed changes have been made, you can resubmit your collection for approval. (Collections may be reviewed and rejected multiple times before final approval.)
6. Once your collection has final approval, you will be notified in the Forum. You will also see a visual indicator in the Wearable Editor next to the approved collection.
7. With a successful approval, you can begin minting items in your collection!

### Publication fees 

There is a required fee for publishing items. This fee was originally [voted in place by the Decentraland DAO](https://governance.decentraland.org/proposal/?id=50092c00-c315-11eb-ac84-1705d1ae4a66) to deter users from publishing an excessive number of wearables in an attempt to “spam” the wearables market.

The [most recent vote](https://governance.decentraland.org/proposal/?id=b8075360-e8e7-11ec-82d9-d917cdd158ac) regarding publication fees has pegged them to a fixed amount of 150 United States dollars per item, to be paid in **Polygon MANA**. 

> **Note:** You can move MANA between Ethereum and Polygon using the [Account dApp](https://account.decentraland.org).

For example, if you publish a collection with two items and the price of MANA at the time is 1.5 USD, you will have to pay a fee of 200 MANA (150 USD for each item divided by the price of MANA in USD) regardless of the rarity (or how many NFTs can be minted) of those items.

These fees are transferred to the curators committee and the Decentraland DAO, where they are used to help fund the growth of the platform through grants and other initiatives voted on by the greater Decentraland community.

> **Note:** Currently, due to the time and resources required to review each collection submitted, **the 150 USD in MANA publication fee is non-refundable**. If your collection is rejected, you will not receive your MANA back. If your collection is not immediately approved, the Curation Committee will provide you with suggestions and feedback on how to improve it, but the final acceptance of your collection cannot be guaranteed.

### Acceptance criteria

Following is an overview of the criteria used by the Curation Committee when determining a collection’s eligibility. Much of this criteria is based on Section 2 of Decentraland’s [Content Policy](https://decentraland.org/content/).

Specifically, wearables may not:

- Involve illegality, such as piracy, criminal activity, terrorism, or child pornography
- Infringe third party intellectual property rights
- Contain cruel or hateful imagery that could harm, harass, promote or condone violence against, or that is primarily intended to incite hatred of, animals, or individuals or groups based on race or ethnic origin, religion, nationality, disability, gender, age, veteran status, or sexual orientation/gender identity
- Contain content that is libelous, false, inaccurate, misleading, or invades another person's privacy
- Breach the Privacy Policy
- Contain any content that promotes or could be construed as primarily intending to evade the limitations described above

Please refer to the full Content Policy [here](https://decentraland.org/content/) for additional details and definitions. Any submissions that violate the above criteria will be rejected.

**In addition to the Content Policy, the committee may reject wearable submissions on the following technical conditions:**

- It is important that wearables be “skin weighted” correctly so that the avatar animations can be rendered as expected. Wearables without correct skin weighting will be rejected.
- Wearables must preserve avatar UV mapping to ensure that user-selected skin tones can be rendered as expected.
- The dimensions of eyebrow, eye, and mouth textures should not exceed 256 by 256px, and these textures must include an alpha channel for transparency.
- Wearables with a disproportionate number of triangles and textures may be rejected. Wearables with too many triangles and textures can result in poor performance and a bad experience for users, so creators should avoid exceeding the following guidelines when creating wearables:
  
  - No more than 1.5K triangles per wearable (except skin category)
  - No more than 500 triangles per accessories
  - No more than 2 textures (at a resolution of 512x512px or lower) per wearable. All textures must be square.
  - No more than 5k triangles for skin category and 5 textures (at a resolution of 512x512px or lower). All textures must be square.

- Wearables may not contain duplicate items within a collection. (Each item within a collection must be unique.)
- Wearables may not mimic or copy other wearables that have already been published.
- Wearables with misleading categories may be rejected; for example, a hat that is categorized as a lower body item.
- Wearables must follow the armature humanoid structure to ensure a good quality gameplay. In this sense, currently vehicles or pets are not allowed because these are not wearables by definition.
- Curators from the curators committee can submit collections but not approve their own. In this case, another curator from the committee would needs to review in order and approve or reject.
