content/creator/places/faq.md, before:

---
date: 2023-05-11
title: FAQ
description: Places FAQ
type: Document
url: /creator/places/faq
---

Below you can find the **frequently asked questions** about [Places](https://places.decentraland.org/).

## Editing your Place

**How do I edit the title, description or image of my Place?**

The title, description and image of your Place are taken from the scene metadata. Find out more about editing the [scene metadata](https://docs.decentraland.org/creator/development-guide/scene-metadata/).

**How does my Place get updated?**

When you re-upload your scene, the Places website will update any metadata automatically.

**What happens if I change my Place significantly?**

Each Place has a unique ID. There are certain conditions which, when fulfilled, will make your Place be considered "new" and it will be given a new ID. This is to cope with the constantly changing nature of Decentraland. If your Place is considered different enough to get a new ID, it will lose favorites and likes. You can read about these conditions in [ADR: Place Identifiers](https://adr.decentraland.org/adr/ADR-186).

## Highest Rated

**How is the highest rated percentage calculated?**

In order to avoid abuse, the highest rated percentage is calculated from upvotes and downvotes from users who have at least 100 [voting power](https://docs.decentraland.org/player/general/dao/dao-userguide/#voting-power). Anyone can vote, but only qualifying votes are used to calculate the highest rated percentage.

People are more likely to rate your place highly if your Place has a title, description and thumbnail.

## Points of Interest

**How can my Place become a Point of Interest?**

Points of interest are notable locations in Decentraland. These “POIs” are promoted in several areas of the virtual world’s UI, and are promoted as good places for users to explore, especially people new to Decentraland.

You can create a [proposal](https://docs.decentraland.org/player/general/dao/dao-userguide/#creating-a-proposal) in the [DAO](https://dao.decentraland.org/en/) to nominate your Place as a Point of Interest.

# More help

For more help, join the [Decentraland Discord](https://decentraland.org/discord) and post a question in the Support section.

Commit message:

Update Places faq.md (#199)
Updated the FAQ to include a reference to Worlds and a link to the short term proposal.

Signed-off-by: louiseDecentraland <95619478+louiseDecentraland@users.noreply.github.com>

content/creator/places/faq.md, after:

---
date: 2023-06-26
title: FAQ
description: Places FAQ
type: Document
url: /creator/places/faq
---

Below you can find the **frequently asked questions** about [Places](https://places.decentraland.org/).

## Editing your Place

**How do I edit the title, description or image of my Place?**

The title, description and image of your Place are taken from the scene metadata. Find out more about editing the [scene metadata](https://docs.decentraland.org/creator/development-guide/scene-metadata/).

**How does my Place get updated?**

When you re-upload your scene, the Places website will update any metadata automatically.

**What happens if I change my Place significantly?**

Each Place has a unique ID. There are certain conditions which, when fulfilled, will make your Place be considered "new" and it will be given a new ID. This is to cope with the constantly changing nature of Decentraland. If your Place is considered different enough to get a new ID, it will lose favorites and likes. You can read about these conditions in [ADR: Place Identifiers](https://adr.decentraland.org/adr/ADR-186).

## Highest Rated

**How is the highest rated percentage calculated?**

In order to avoid abuse, the highest rated percentage is calculated from upvotes and downvotes from users who have at least 100 [voting power](https://docs.decentraland.org/player/general/dao/dao-userguide/#voting-power). Anyone can vote, but only qualifying votes are used to calculate the highest rated percentage.

People are more likely to rate your place highly if your Place has a title, description and thumbnail.

## Points of Interest

**How can my Place become a Point of Interest?**

Points of interest are notable locations in Decentraland. These “POIs” are promoted in several areas of the virtual world’s UI, and are promoted as good places for users to explore, especially people new to Decentraland.

You can create a [proposal](https://docs.decentraland.org/player/general/dao/dao-userguide/#creating-a-proposal) in the [DAO](https://dao.decentraland.org/en/) to nominate your Place as a Point of Interest.

## Worlds

**Which Worlds appear in the Worlds tab?**

As defined in the _Worlds 1.0 - Short-Term Plan_ [DAO proposal](https://governance.decentraland.org/proposal/?id=e712bb50-e822-11ed-b8f1-75dbe089d333),  we allow discoverability of Worlds deployed to Foundation’s World Content Server only for NAME owners that also hold LAND or an active LAND rental contract.

# More help

For more help, join the [Decentraland Discord](https://decentraland.org/discord) and post a question in the Support section.
