content/creator/scene-editor/combine-with-code.md, before:

---
date: 2024-07-25
title: Combine with code
description: Combine content created on the Scene Editor with the power of writing code.
categories:
  - scene-editor
type: Document
url: /creator/editor/editor-plus-code
aliases:
  - /creator/editor-plus-code
weight: 7
---

{{< youtube 55H37rygD7M >}}

The Creator Hub plus custom code is a very powerful combination for creating content. You can use the canvas to visually position items intuitively, and then write code that interacts with these items with complete freedom. You can even place a smart item, that has its own default behavior, and write code that reacts to when the item is activated.

For example, you can take advantage of an existing lever smart item, that already comes with its sounds and animations and states, and write code that detects when the lever is pulled to run your own custom logic.

## Editing code

You must install a code editor on your machine to edit the code of your scene. The recommended options are:

- <img src="/images/editor/vscode.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/): This is the recommended option for experienced developers.

- <img src="/images/editor/cursor-icon.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Cursor AI](https://www.cursor.com/): This is a powerful code editor that is integrated with AI. It lets you pick different AI models to help you write code, all of them are free. This is a good option for developers who are new to Decentraland or TypeScript, or if you want to save time writing code.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: If you are on macOS, make sure the code editor app is in the Applications directory.
{{< /hint >}}

Once installed, you may need to select your Code Editor in the settings of the Creator Hub. To do this,

1. Open the wheel icon in the top-right of the screen 
<img src="/images/editor/settings-icon.png" alt="Header" width="128"/>

2. Under **Code editor of choice**, select your Code Editor. You may find your editor listed in the dropdown, or you may need to select **Chose from your device** to find it.


## Open a scene's code

Once you installed a code editor on your machine, and selected it in the settings of the Creator Hub, you can click the **< > CODE** button to open it on your scene project.

<img src="/images/editor/code-button.png" width="200"/>

This opens a separate window with the code editor. On the left margin you can navigate the files and folder structure of your project.

<img src="/images/editor/files-on-vs-studio.png" alt="Scene name" width="200"/>

Add your custom code in the `index.ts` file under `/src`, inside the `main()` function. You can otherwise add custom code outside that function or create new `.ts` files inside the `/src` folder, but these must be somehow referenced inside the `main()` function of `index.ts`.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: If you have VS Code or Cursor installed but the **CODE** button doesn't open it, it may be that VS Code is not properly configured on your machine to open via the command line. In most cases, this is handled as part of the default installation, but in case it's not, see [these instructions from VS](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac#_launching-from-the-command-line) to enable VS Code from the command line.
{{< /hint >}}

If you have a preview window open running your scene, whenever you change the code in your files and save, the scene reloads automatically with your changes.

## Using AI with Cursor

If you are using Cursor, you can use the AI assistant to help you write code. To do this,

1. Open the Cursor AI assistant by clicking the **AI** button in the top-right of the screen
<img src="/images/editor/cursor-icon.png" alt="Header" width="128"/>

2. There you can prompt the AI assistant to help you write code. You can also select a model to use from the dropdown.

Decentraland provides a context folder for the AI assistant to help you write code, this context folder is located at `/context` in your scene project. The AI assistant will know to search this context whenever generating code, to get familiar with the Decentraland SDK. 


{{< hint info >}}
**💡 Tip**: You can also add your own context files to this folder to help the AI assistant understand your scene and project. If you do, make sure to add them to a new file in that folder, as the default files are overwritten when SDK updates happen.
{{< /hint >}}


## Reference an item

When using the Creator Hub and adding entities by dragging them into the canvas, each entity has a unique name. Use the
`engine.getEntityOrNullByName()` function to reference one of these entities from your code.

Use the `EntityNames` enum to easily access the names of the entities that you added via the Creator Hub, or write the name as a string as written on the scene's entity tree view in the Scene Editor.


```ts
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {

	// Use the EntityNames enum
	const door1 = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Door_1)

	// Write the name as a string
	const door2 = engine.getEntityOrNullByName('Door 2')

	// Ensure both doors exsist in the scene
	(if door1 && door2){
		// 
	}

}
```

<img src="/images/editor/door-names.png" width="600" />

The `EntityNames` enum contains the full list of entities added by the Creator Hub and is updated immediately as soon as you make any changes.
If you import `EntityNames.` into your code, your IDE will present you with a dropdown including all the names of the entities available.

<img src="/images/editor/EntityNames.png" width="300" />


You can also use the `engine.getEntityByName<EntityNames>()` function, passing `<EntityNames>` as a [TypeScript generic](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/generics.html), to validate that an entity by that name really exists in your scene. If the referenced entity is renamed on the Creator Hub, this method will warn you with an error. As the output of this function can't be `null`, you can avoid checking that the entity exists.

```ts
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {

	const door1 = engine.getEntityByName<EntityNames>(EntityNames.Door_1)

	// Ne need to check for null
	console.log(Transform.get(door1).position.x)

}
```


{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Make sure you only use `engine.getEntityOrNullByName()` and `engine.getEntityByName()` inside the `main()` function, in functions that run after `main()`, or in a system. If used outside one of those contexts, the entities created in the Scene Editor may not yet be instanced.
{{< /hint >}}

Once you fetched a reference to an entity with any of the above methods, you're free to perform any action with it, like add or remove components, modify values of existing components, or even remove the entity from the engine.

```ts
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	// fetch entity
	const door = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Door_3)
	// verify that the entity exists
	if (door) {
		// add a pointer events callback
		pointerEventsSystem.onPointerDown(
			{
				entity: door,
				opts: { button: InputAction.IA_PRIMARY, hoverText: 'Open' },
			},
			function () {
				// open door
			}
		)
	}
}
```

All the entities added via the Scene Editor have a `Name` component, you can also iterate over all of them like this:

```ts
function main() {
	for (const [entity, name] of engine.getEntitiesWith(Name)) {
		console.log({ entity, name })
	}
}
```

## Fetch by Tag

You can also fetch entities by their tags. Tags are a way to group entities together, and are useful to identify entities that have the same purpose or behavior.

Add Tags to an entity via the **Tags** section at the top of the item's properties panel. You can pick from the generic tags like **Tag Group 1** through to **Tag Group 4**, or create your own with a more specific name. 

<img src="/images/editor/tags.png" width="600" />

{{< hint info >}}
**💡 Tip**: A single entity can have multiple tags assigned to it.

<img src="/images/editor/tags-multiple.png" width="600" />

{{< /hint >}}

You can then fetch all entities that have a specific tag by using the `engine.getEntitiesByTag()` function. This is ideal for when you want to iterate over a group of entities that have the same purpose or behavior.

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'

export function main() {
	const taggedEntities = engine.getEntitiesByTag('myTag')
  
	for (const entity of taggedEntities) {
      // Do something with each entity
    }
}
```

You can also add or remove tags to an entity from your code. This is useful if you want to change tags based on some logic, or to spawn entities dynamically that have specific tags.

```ts
import { Tags } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'

Tags.remove(entity, tagName);
Tags.add(entity, tagName);
```

## Fetch all the children of an item

You can also write a script that lets you deal with all of the items that are grouped as children of a certain item on the entity tree on the left of the screen.
The following script iterates over all entities that have a Transform and a parent, and checks if the name of the parent matches the name `some-parent` in this case. You can then apply any custom logic you want to those specific entities.

```ts
import { engine, Entity, Transform, Name } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	// get parent entity
	const parent = engine.getEntityByName<EntityNames>(EntityNames.ParentEntity)
	
	// obtain all children entities of that parent
	const childEntities = getChildren(parent)
	
	// loop over each child
	for(const entity of childEntities){
		// handle entity
	}

}

// reusable function to obtain all the child entities of a parent
function getChildren(parent: Entity): Entity[] {
	const childEntities: Entity[] = []
	for (const [entity, transform] of engine.getEntitiesWith(Transform)) {
		if (transform.parent === parent) {
			childEntities.push(entity)
		}
	}
	return childEntities
}
```


## Smart item triggers

You can detect a smart item's **Trigger events**, and respond to these with custom code. For example, you could place a button smart item, and activate custom code when the button is clicked.

Use `getTriggerEvents` to fetch an object that can handle trigger events on from a particular smart item, then use the `.on()` function of the returned object to subscribe a callback function. This callback function gets executed every time that the trigger event happens.

For example, if a scene has a button with the following generic **On Click** event, you can write the code below to run custom code whenever the button is activated.

<img src="/images/editor/restart-button.png" width="600" />

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getTriggerEvents, getActionEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	const restart = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Restart_Button)
	if (restart) {
		const restart_event = getTriggerEvents(restart)
		restart_event.on(TriggerType.ON_CLICK, () => {
			// restartGame()
		})
	}
}
```

You can similarly subscribe to any other type of trigger events, like **ON_PLAYER_ENTERS_AREA**, **ON_SPAWN**, **ON_TWEEN_END**, etc.

<!--
You can also use custom code to activate trigger events based on your own custom logic. The following example triggers a door's **On Click** trigger event. Any actions called by that event will be executed. In this case, the door will open or close.

<img src="/images/editor/door-triggers.png" width="600" />

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getTriggerEvents, getActionEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'

function main() {
	const door = engine.getEntityOrNullByName('Wooden Door')
	if (door) {
		const door_events = getTriggerEvents(door)
		door_events.emit(TriggerType.ON_CLICK)
	}
}
``` -->

## Smart item actions

You can detect the activation of a smart item's **Actions**, and respond to these with custom code. For example, you could place a door smart item, and run custom code whenever the **Open** action gets called.

Use `getActionEvents` to fetch an object for handling the actions of a specific smart item. Then you can use the `.on()` function of the returned object to subscribe a callback function. This callback function gets executed every time that the action happens, regardless of if the action was activated by another smart item, or even by custom code of your own.

For example, if a scene has a door with the following default **Open** action, you can write the code below to run custom code whenever the door is opened.

<img src="/images/editor/door-actions.png" width="600" />

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getTriggerEvents, getActionEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	const door = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Wooden_Door)
	if (door) {
		// detect actions
		const actions = getActionEvents(door)
		actions.on('Open', () => {
			console.log('Door opened!!')
			// custom code
		})

		// detect triggers
		const triggers = getTriggerEvents(door)
		triggers.on(TriggerType.ON_CLICK, () => {
			console.log('Door clicked!!')
			// custom code
		})
	}
}
```

You can also emit action events from your code, this allows you to take advantage of actions that are already defined inside the smart item's Action component. The following snippet calls the "Open" action on a door smart item whenever a button smart item is triggered.

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getTriggerEvents, getActionEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	const button = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Red_Button)
	const door = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Wooden_Door)
	if (button && door) {
		// references to actions and triggers
		const buttonTriggers = getTriggerEvents(button)
		const doorActions = getActionEvents(door)

		// detect triggers on button
		buttonTriggers.on(TriggerType.ON_INPUT_ACTION, () => {
			// open door
			doorActions.emit('Open', {})
		})
	}
}
```

{{< hint info >}}
**💡 Tip**: If you're not trying to do something very complicated, instead of writing code you can also create a custom smart item to handle the actions you want to perform. See [Making any item smart]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/make-any-item-smart.md" >}}).
{{< /hint >}}

## Other smart item components

Smart items can include special components that are part of the asset-packs library, like `States` or `Counter`. These components are not part of the Decentraland SDK, but they can be fetched via the `getComponents()` function from the library. You can then read or write values to these components from your scene's code, to have an even tighter integration between smart item behavior and code.

The example below reads and logs the value of a State component of a chest smart item, whenever the chest's actions are triggered.

```ts

import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getComponents } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { getTriggerEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'


export function main() {

    const chest = engine.getEntityByName<EntityNames>(EntityNames.chest)
 
    if (chest) {

        const chestTriggers = getTriggerEvents(chest)

        chestTriggers.on(TriggerType.ON_INPUT_ACTION, () => {
            const { States } = getComponents(engine)
            let state = States.getMutableOrNull(chest)?.currentValue
            console.log( "chest new state ", state)
        })
    }
}
```


## Version control

We recommend that you create a repo for your project on GitHub, and use it to keep track of your project's versions and to work collaboratively with others.

If you're not familiar with how to do this, see [Quickstart for repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/quickstart-for-repositories), or use the [GitHub desktop appliacation](https://desktop.github.com/download/) for an simpler UI-based flow.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Upload the entire project folder to a GitHub repo, but make sure the `/node-modules` or `/bin` folders and the `package-lock.json` file are all included in the `.gitignore` file, to avoid syncing them. This should be the case if you configure the repo to be of type `node`. These files are all auto-generated, and the content may differ for different machines.
{{< /hint >}}

## See also

- [Smart items - Basics]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/smart-items.md" >}})
- [Smart items - Advanced]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/smart-items-advanced.md" >}})
- [States and conditions]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/states-and-conditions.md" >}})
- [Making any item smart]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/make-any-item-smart.md" >}})

- [SDK Quick start]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/sdk-101.md" >}}): follow this mini tutorial for a quick crash course.
- [Development workflow]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/dev-workflow.md" >}}): read this to understand scene creation from end to end.
- [Examples](https://studios.decentraland.org/resources?sdk_version=SDK7): dive right into working example scenes.

Commit message:

context update command line
Signed-off-by: Nicolas Earnshaw <nearnshaw@decentraland.org>

content/creator/scene-editor/combine-with-code.md, after:

---
date: 2024-07-25
title: Combine with code
description: Combine content created on the Scene Editor with the power of writing code.
categories:
  - scene-editor
type: Document
url: /creator/editor/editor-plus-code
aliases:
  - /creator/editor-plus-code
weight: 7
---

{{< youtube 55H37rygD7M >}}

The Creator Hub plus custom code is a very powerful combination for creating content. You can use the canvas to visually position items intuitively, and then write code that interacts with these items with complete freedom. You can even place a smart item, that has its own default behavior, and write code that reacts to when the item is activated.

For example, you can take advantage of an existing lever smart item, that already comes with its sounds and animations and states, and write code that detects when the lever is pulled to run your own custom logic.

## Editing code

You must install a code editor on your machine to edit the code of your scene. The recommended options are:

- <img src="/images/editor/vscode.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/): This is the recommended option for experienced developers.

- <img src="/images/editor/cursor-icon.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Cursor AI](https://www.cursor.com/): This is a powerful code editor that is integrated with AI. It lets you pick different AI models to help you write code, all of them are free. This is a good option for developers who are new to Decentraland or TypeScript, or if you want to save time writing code.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: If you are on macOS, make sure the code editor app is in the Applications directory.
{{< /hint >}}

Once installed, you may need to select your Code Editor in the settings of the Creator Hub. To do this,

1. Open the wheel icon in the top-right of the screen 
<img src="/images/editor/settings-icon.png" alt="Header" width="128"/>

2. Under **Code editor of choice**, select your Code Editor. You may find your editor listed in the dropdown, or you may need to select **Chose from your device** to find it.


## Open a scene's code

Once you installed a code editor on your machine, and selected it in the settings of the Creator Hub, you can click the **< > CODE** button to open it on your scene project.

<img src="/images/editor/code-button.png" width="200"/>

This opens a separate window with the code editor. On the left margin you can navigate the files and folder structure of your project.

<img src="/images/editor/files-on-vs-studio.png" alt="Scene name" width="200"/>

Add your custom code in the `index.ts` file under `/src`, inside the `main()` function. You can otherwise add custom code outside that function or create new `.ts` files inside the `/src` folder, but these must be somehow referenced inside the `main()` function of `index.ts`.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: If you have VS Code or Cursor installed but the **CODE** button doesn't open it, it may be that VS Code is not properly configured on your machine to open via the command line. In most cases, this is handled as part of the default installation, but in case it's not, see [these instructions from VS](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/mac#_launching-from-the-command-line) to enable VS Code from the command line.
{{< /hint >}}

If you have a preview window open running your scene, whenever you change the code in your files and save, the scene reloads automatically with your changes.

## Using AI with Cursor

If you are using Cursor, you can use the AI assistant to help you write code. To do this,

1. Open the Cursor AI assistant by clicking the **AI** button in the top-right of the screen
<img src="/images/editor/cursor-icon.png" alt="Header" width="128"/>

2. There you can prompt the AI assistant to help you write code. You can also select a model to use from the dropdown.

Decentraland provides a context folder for the AI assistant to help you write code, this context folder is located at `/dclcontext` in your scene project. The AI assistant will know to search this context whenever generating code, to get familiar with the Decentraland SDK.

This folder is updated with the latest context files every time your scene's dependencies are updated. You can also force update this folder by running the following:

```
npx sdk-commands get-context-files
```


{{< hint info >}}
**💡 Tip**: You can also add your own context files to this folder to help the AI assistant understand your scene and project. If you do, make sure to add them to a new file in that folder, as the default files are overwritten when SDK updates happen.
{{< /hint >}}


## Reference an item

When using the Creator Hub and adding entities by dragging them into the canvas, each entity has a unique name. Use the
`engine.getEntityOrNullByName()` function to reference one of these entities from your code.

Use the `EntityNames` enum to easily access the names of the entities that you added via the Creator Hub, or write the name as a string as written on the scene's entity tree view in the Scene Editor.


```ts
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {

	// Use the EntityNames enum
	const door1 = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Door_1)

	// Write the name as a string
	const door2 = engine.getEntityOrNullByName('Door 2')

	// Ensure both doors exsist in the scene
	(if door1 && door2){
		// 
	}

}
```

<img src="/images/editor/door-names.png" width="600" />

The `EntityNames` enum contains the full list of entities added by the Creator Hub and is updated immediately as soon as you make any changes.
If you import `EntityNames.` into your code, your IDE will present you with a dropdown including all the names of the entities available.

<img src="/images/editor/EntityNames.png" width="300" />


You can also use the `engine.getEntityByName<EntityNames>()` function, passing `<EntityNames>` as a [TypeScript generic](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/generics.html), to validate that an entity by that name really exists in your scene. If the referenced entity is renamed on the Creator Hub, this method will warn you with an error. As the output of this function can't be `null`, you can avoid checking that the entity exists.

```ts
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {

	const door1 = engine.getEntityByName<EntityNames>(EntityNames.Door_1)

	// Ne need to check for null
	console.log(Transform.get(door1).position.x)

}
```


{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Make sure you only use `engine.getEntityOrNullByName()` and `engine.getEntityByName()` inside the `main()` function, in functions that run after `main()`, or in a system. If used outside one of those contexts, the entities created in the Scene Editor may not yet be instanced.
{{< /hint >}}

Once you fetched a reference to an entity with any of the above methods, you're free to perform any action with it, like add or remove components, modify values of existing components, or even remove the entity from the engine.

```ts
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	// fetch entity
	const door = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Door_3)
	// verify that the entity exists
	if (door) {
		// add a pointer events callback
		pointerEventsSystem.onPointerDown(
			{
				entity: door,
				opts: { button: InputAction.IA_PRIMARY, hoverText: 'Open' },
			},
			function () {
				// open door
			}
		)
	}
}
```

All the entities added via the Scene Editor have a `Name` component, you can also iterate over all of them like this:

```ts
function main() {
	for (const [entity, name] of engine.getEntitiesWith(Name)) {
		console.log({ entity, name })
	}
}
```

## Fetch by Tag

You can also fetch entities by their tags. Tags are a way to group entities together, and are useful to identify entities that have the same purpose or behavior.

Add Tags to an entity via the **Tags** section at the top of the item's properties panel. You can pick from the generic tags like **Tag Group 1** through to **Tag Group 4**, or create your own with a more specific name. 

<img src="/images/editor/tags.png" width="600" />

{{< hint info >}}
**💡 Tip**: A single entity can have multiple tags assigned to it.

<img src="/images/editor/tags-multiple.png" width="600" />

{{< /hint >}}

You can then fetch all entities that have a specific tag by using the `engine.getEntitiesByTag()` function. This is ideal for when you want to iterate over a group of entities that have the same purpose or behavior.

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'

export function main() {
	const taggedEntities = engine.getEntitiesByTag('myTag')
  
	for (const entity of taggedEntities) {
      // Do something with each entity
    }
}
```

You can also add or remove tags to an entity from your code. This is useful if you want to change tags based on some logic, or to spawn entities dynamically that have specific tags.

```ts
import { Tags } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'

Tags.remove(entity, tagName);
Tags.add(entity, tagName);
```

## Fetch all the children of an item

You can also write a script that lets you deal with all of the items that are grouped as children of a certain item on the entity tree on the left of the screen.
The following script iterates over all entities that have a Transform and a parent, and checks if the name of the parent matches the name `some-parent` in this case. You can then apply any custom logic you want to those specific entities.

```ts
import { engine, Entity, Transform, Name } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	// get parent entity
	const parent = engine.getEntityByName<EntityNames>(EntityNames.ParentEntity)
	
	// obtain all children entities of that parent
	const childEntities = getChildren(parent)
	
	// loop over each child
	for(const entity of childEntities){
		// handle entity
	}

}

// reusable function to obtain all the child entities of a parent
function getChildren(parent: Entity): Entity[] {
	const childEntities: Entity[] = []
	for (const [entity, transform] of engine.getEntitiesWith(Transform)) {
		if (transform.parent === parent) {
			childEntities.push(entity)
		}
	}
	return childEntities
}
```


## Smart item triggers

You can detect a smart item's **Trigger events**, and respond to these with custom code. For example, you could place a button smart item, and activate custom code when the button is clicked.

Use `getTriggerEvents` to fetch an object that can handle trigger events on from a particular smart item, then use the `.on()` function of the returned object to subscribe a callback function. This callback function gets executed every time that the trigger event happens.

For example, if a scene has a button with the following generic **On Click** event, you can write the code below to run custom code whenever the button is activated.

<img src="/images/editor/restart-button.png" width="600" />

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getTriggerEvents, getActionEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	const restart = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Restart_Button)
	if (restart) {
		const restart_event = getTriggerEvents(restart)
		restart_event.on(TriggerType.ON_CLICK, () => {
			// restartGame()
		})
	}
}
```

You can similarly subscribe to any other type of trigger events, like **ON_PLAYER_ENTERS_AREA**, **ON_SPAWN**, **ON_TWEEN_END**, etc.

<!--
You can also use custom code to activate trigger events based on your own custom logic. The following example triggers a door's **On Click** trigger event. Any actions called by that event will be executed. In this case, the door will open or close.

<img src="/images/editor/door-triggers.png" width="600" />

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getTriggerEvents, getActionEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'

function main() {
	const door = engine.getEntityOrNullByName('Wooden Door')
	if (door) {
		const door_events = getTriggerEvents(door)
		door_events.emit(TriggerType.ON_CLICK)
	}
}
``` -->

## Smart item actions

You can detect the activation of a smart item's **Actions**, and respond to these with custom code. For example, you could place a door smart item, and run custom code whenever the **Open** action gets called.

Use `getActionEvents` to fetch an object for handling the actions of a specific smart item. Then you can use the `.on()` function of the returned object to subscribe a callback function. This callback function gets executed every time that the action happens, regardless of if the action was activated by another smart item, or even by custom code of your own.

For example, if a scene has a door with the following default **Open** action, you can write the code below to run custom code whenever the door is opened.

<img src="/images/editor/door-actions.png" width="600" />

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getTriggerEvents, getActionEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	const door = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Wooden_Door)
	if (door) {
		// detect actions
		const actions = getActionEvents(door)
		actions.on('Open', () => {
			console.log('Door opened!!')
			// custom code
		})

		// detect triggers
		const triggers = getTriggerEvents(door)
		triggers.on(TriggerType.ON_CLICK, () => {
			console.log('Door clicked!!')
			// custom code
		})
	}
}
```

You can also emit action events from your code, this allows you to take advantage of actions that are already defined inside the smart item's Action component. The following snippet calls the "Open" action on a door smart item whenever a button smart item is triggered.

```ts
import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getTriggerEvents, getActionEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'

function main() {
	const button = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Red_Button)
	const door = engine.getEntityOrNullByName(EntityNames.Wooden_Door)
	if (button && door) {
		// references to actions and triggers
		const buttonTriggers = getTriggerEvents(button)
		const doorActions = getActionEvents(door)

		// detect triggers on button
		buttonTriggers.on(TriggerType.ON_INPUT_ACTION, () => {
			// open door
			doorActions.emit('Open', {})
		})
	}
}
```

{{< hint info >}}
**💡 Tip**: If you're not trying to do something very complicated, instead of writing code you can also create a custom smart item to handle the actions you want to perform. See [Making any item smart]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/make-any-item-smart.md" >}}).
{{< /hint >}}

## Other smart item components

Smart items can include special components that are part of the asset-packs library, like `States` or `Counter`. These components are not part of the Decentraland SDK, but they can be fetched via the `getComponents()` function from the library. You can then read or write values to these components from your scene's code, to have an even tighter integration between smart item behavior and code.

The example below reads and logs the value of a State component of a chest smart item, whenever the chest's actions are triggered.

```ts

import { engine } from '@dcl/sdk/ecs'
import { getComponents } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { getTriggerEvents } from '@dcl/asset-packs/dist/events'
import { TriggerType } from '@dcl/asset-packs'
import { EntityNames } from '../assets/scene/entity-names'


export function main() {

    const chest = engine.getEntityByName<EntityNames>(EntityNames.chest)
 
    if (chest) {

        const chestTriggers = getTriggerEvents(chest)

        chestTriggers.on(TriggerType.ON_INPUT_ACTION, () => {
            const { States } = getComponents(engine)
            let state = States.getMutableOrNull(chest)?.currentValue
            console.log( "chest new state ", state)
        })
    }
}
```


## Version control

We recommend that you create a repo for your project on GitHub, and use it to keep track of your project's versions and to work collaboratively with others.

If you're not familiar with how to do this, see [Quickstart for repositories](https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/creating-and-managing-repositories/quickstart-for-repositories), or use the [GitHub desktop appliacation](https://desktop.github.com/download/) for an simpler UI-based flow.

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: Upload the entire project folder to a GitHub repo, but make sure the `/node-modules` or `/bin` folders and the `package-lock.json` file are all included in the `.gitignore` file, to avoid syncing them. This should be the case if you configure the repo to be of type `node`. These files are all auto-generated, and the content may differ for different machines.
{{< /hint >}}

## See also

- [Smart items - Basics]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/smart-items.md" >}})
- [Smart items - Advanced]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/smart-items-advanced.md" >}})
- [States and conditions]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/states-and-conditions.md" >}})
- [Making any item smart]({{< ref "/content/creator/scene-editor/smart-items/make-any-item-smart.md" >}})

- [SDK Quick start]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/sdk-101.md" >}}): follow this mini tutorial for a quick crash course.
- [Development workflow]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/getting-started/dev-workflow.md" >}}): read this to understand scene creation from end to end.
- [Examples](https://studios.decentraland.org/resources?sdk_version=SDK7): dive right into working example scenes.
