content/creator/scene-editor/editor-installation.md, before:

---
date: 2024-07-25
title: Creator Hub Installation
description: How to install the scene editor.
categories:
  - scene-editor
type: Document
url: /creator/editor/install-editor
weight: 2
---

<img src="/images/editor/icon-creator-hub.png" alt="Header" width="128"/>

Download the Creator Hub [HERE](https://decentraland.org/download/creator-hub).

## Updating the Creator Hub

No steps are required. The Creator Hub application checks for updates every time you open it, and self-updates if there's a new version available.

## Editing code

If you also plan on reading and editing code in your scene, you'll also need to install <img src="/images/editor/vscode.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/), if you don't have it already.

<img src="/images/editor/editor-header.png" alt="Header" width="100%"/>

<!-- TODO: will we support other IDEs? -->

## Troubleshooting

If you run into issues, see the [troubleshooting]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/troubleshooting.md" >}}) section.

Commit message:

Cursor hints (#505)
* add video

* cursor hints

* use png

* retouches

* retouches

* fix format

content/creator/scene-editor/editor-installation.md, after:

---
date: 2024-07-25
title: Creator Hub Installation
description: How to install the scene editor.
categories:
  - scene-editor
type: Document
url: /creator/editor/install-editor
weight: 2
---

<img src="/images/editor/icon-creator-hub.png" alt="Header" width="128"/>

Download the Creator Hub [HERE](https://decentraland.org/download/creator-hub).

## Updating the Creator Hub

No steps are required. The Creator Hub application checks for updates every time you open it, and self-updates if there's a new version available.

## Editing code

If you also plan on reading and editing code in your scene, you'll also need to install either:

- <img src="/images/editor/vscode.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/): This is the recommended option for experienced developers.

- <img src="/images/editor/cursor-icon.png" alt="Header" width="25"/> [Cursor AI](https://www.cursor.com/): This is a powerful code editor that is integrated with AI. It lets you pick different AI models to help you write code, all of them are free. This is a good option for developers who are new to Decentraland or TypeScript, or if you want to save time writing code.


## Troubleshooting

If you run into issues, see the [troubleshooting]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/debugging/troubleshooting.md" >}}) section.
