content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing-options.md, before:

---
date: 2022-12-21
title: Publishing options
description: How to obtain LAND or permissions to publish your scene
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/publishing-permissions
weight: 2
---

To invite others to visit a scene you built, you'll need to publish it in Decentraland. To do this, you'll need to have deploy permissions to Decentraland parcels or own a Decentraland name in order to deploy to a Decentraland World.

Decentraland is made up of _parcels_ of LAND, each 16 meters by 16 meters. A _scene_ is an experience that is built on one or several parcels.

This document gives an overview on the different ways to obtain permissions.
See [publishing]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md" >}}) for instructions on how to publish once you've obtained these.

## LAND permission options

In order to publish to LAND in Genesis City, you can do the following:

- **Rent LAND**: Purchase the right to deploy and keep your content on certain parcels for a fixed period of time. See [Rentals]({{< ref "/content/player/marketplace/rentals.md" >}}).
- **Buy land**: Buy land parcels, and publish your content for as long as you wish. See [marketplace]({{< ref "/content/player/marketplace/marketplace.md" >}}).
- **Get permissions from an owner**: Several land owners and districts manage large extensions of land and are willing to freely host content from others if it fits their theme and the kind of environment they want to create. Connect with them in the [Decentraland Discord server](https://dcl.gg/discord).
- **Worlds**: You can also deploy a stand-alone scene as a Decentraland World. Worlds exist outside the grid of Genesis City, and can be accessed by name. See [worlds]({{< ref "/content/creator/worlds/about.md" >}})

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: You can also deploy scenes to a test server where players are not around. The same permissions per parcel apply when deploying to the test server, see [publishing]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md#the-test-server" >}}) for more details.
{{< /hint >}}

## Get DAO funding

If you have a great idea and the means to achieve it, but need financing, you can request for a grant in the DAO. If the proposal convinces enough people from the community to vote on it, you can get a sum of money to achieve your vision, including funds for buying or renting LAND.

See [Community grants]({{< ref "/content/player/dao/grants/community-grants.md" >}}).

## How land permissions work

LAND tokens can manage permissions that allow the following different kinds of roles to deploy to a particular parcel or estate.

- **LAND owner**: The person that owns the token in their Ethereum wallet. This user can always deploy, assign other roles, or transfer the token (unless the land is currently rented by someone else).
- **LAND operator**: The operator is only able to deploy, as long as they hold this role. The operator's address is referenced by the token, without needing to own anything. The owner can assign and revoke operator permissions to any number of addresses. See [Give permissions]({{< ref "/content/player/marketplace/land-manager.md#give-permissions" >}}).

When renting a land, the tennant who pays for the rent gets to chose a single address that will hold a **LAND Operator** role for the duration of the rent (this can be their own address, or someone else's). While the rent is active, none of the original holders of roles can interfere with the content on that LAND or transfer the token.

Commit message:

New EDITOR section (#415)
* new EDITOR section

* fix links

* multiple edits

* more additions

* fix link

* adjust image sizes and more

* smart items as section

* reorder pages

* expand more

* publish scene - first iteration

* fixes

* retouch intro

* polish editor essentials

* test

* test 2

* bigger titles

* bigger titles

* interlinks

* overall diagram

* fix links

* fix link

* images

* test

* title sizes

* many renames and other changes

* feat: change h6 by h5

* feat: update theme with heading

* h4 > h3

* Creators Hub > Creator Hub

* many changes

* many changes

* 3d content essentials parts

* many fixes

* quickstart first draft

* enhancements

* refine

* finish tutorial

* fixes

* rearrange creator landing

* Creator Hub, not Creators Hub

* adjustments

* bigger image

* retouches

* retouches

* camera-first-draft

* camera docs

* deprecated section

* fix links

* default transition to all camera snippets

* remove comment

* minor fixes to camera

* trigger area and streaming

* creator hub rename

* mention templates

* fixes to camera

* debug in preview

* single player scenes (#435)

* input modifiers

* retouches

* polish 101 tutorial

* add image of avocado

* fix CLI command

* adjust image sizes

* warning about user data

* emotes texture size

* reload when debugging

* version control

* video player basic material

* fix link

* warnings

* global sounds

* more direct download link

* player docs edits

* whitepaper

* URL links to DCL on new client

* fix whitepaper links

* test YT video

* update YT videos

* isStateSynced

* retuouch isSynced snippet

* isSynced retouches

---------

Co-authored-by: Braian Mellor <braianj@gmail.com>

content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing-options.md, after:

---
date: 2022-12-21
title: Publishing options
description: How to obtain LAND or permissions to publish your scene
categories:
  - development-guide
type: Document
url: /creator/development-guide/sdk7/publishing-permissions
weight: 2
---

To invite others to visit a scene you built, you'll need to publish it in Decentraland. To do this, you'll need to have deploy permissions to Decentraland parcels or own a Decentraland name in order to deploy to a Decentraland World.

Decentraland is made up of _parcels_ of LAND, each 16 meters by 16 meters. A _scene_ is an experience that is built on one or several parcels.

This document gives an overview on the different ways to obtain permissions.
See [publishing]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md" >}}) for instructions on how to publish once you've obtained these.

## LAND permission options

In order to publish to LAND in Genesis City, you can do the following:

- **Rent LAND**: Purchase the right to deploy and keep your content on certain parcels for a fixed period of time. See [Rentals]({{< ref "/content/player/marketplace/rentals.md" >}}).
- **Buy land**: Buy land parcels, and publish your content for as long as you wish. See [marketplace]({{< ref "/content/player/marketplace/marketplace.md" >}}).
- **Get permissions from an owner**: Several land owners and districts manage large extensions of land and are willing to freely host content from others if it fits their theme and the kind of environment they want to create. Connect with them in the [Decentraland Discord server](https://dcl.gg/discord).
- **Worlds**: You can also deploy a stand-alone scene as a Decentraland World. Worlds exist outside the grid of Genesis City, and can be accessed by name. See [worlds]({{< ref "/content/creator/worlds/about.md" >}})

{{< hint warning >}}
**📔 Note**: You can also deploy scenes to a test server where players are not around. The same permissions per parcel apply when deploying to the test server, see [publishing]({{< ref "/content/creator/sdk7/publishing/publishing.md#the-test-server" >}}) for more details.
{{< /hint >}}

## Decentraland Worlds

If you own a Decentraland NAME you can also publish your scene to a Decentraland World. This option costs considerably less than buying land, a NAME costs 100 MANA.

Inside a World, you're allowed to use as many parcels as you want. The size limit of your scene in MegaBytes depends on how many NAMES, MANA, L1 Wearables and other tokens you own.

See [Worlds]({{< ref "/content/creator/worlds/about.md" >}}) for more info.

## Get DAO funding

If you have a great idea and the means to achieve it, but need financing, you can request for a grant in the DAO. If the proposal convinces enough people from the community to vote on it, you can get a sum of money to achieve your vision, including funds for buying or renting LAND.

See [Community grants]({{< ref "/content/player/dao/grants/community-grants.md" >}}).

## How land permissions work

LAND tokens can manage permissions that allow the following different kinds of roles to deploy to a particular parcel or estate.

- **LAND owner**: The person that owns the token in their Ethereum wallet. This user can always deploy, assign other roles, or transfer the token (unless the land is currently rented by someone else).
- **LAND operator**: The operator is only able to deploy, as long as they hold this role. The operator's address is referenced by the token, without needing to own anything. The owner can assign and revoke operator permissions to any number of addresses. See [Give permissions]({{< ref "/content/player/marketplace/land-manager.md#give-permissions" >}}).

When renting a land, the tennant who pays for the rent gets to chose a single address that will hold a **LAND Operator** role for the duration of the rent (this can be their own address, or someone else's). While the rent is active, none of the original holders of roles can interfere with the content on that LAND or transfer the token.
